Voiceover: Let's talk about
post-transcriptional regulation which is regulation basically once DNA has been transcribed into mRNA and I've drawn out this
little schematic for you here and it kind of just shows
you how a DNA strand has a corresponding RNA strand and then the mRNA strand afterwards and I'll sort of explain
what all the different colors and words mean in just a little bit. So once DNA is transcribed
by RNA polymerase into the corresponding RNA strand, this RNA strand needs to get what I call a tidy little haircut and then don some protective outerwear before it can leave the comfort of the nucleus for its big debut into the
cytoplasm in the form of a fully processed messenger
RNA or mRNA strand. Now keep in mind that
this form of regulation occurs in eukaryotes only
and this modification also helps to stabilize
the mRNA to protect it from premature degradation before it gets translated into a protein. So as you can see here,
DNA gets transcribed one to one, base for base, into RNA and you can see here
that there are sections of the RNA that ultimately make it into the finished mRNA, these short segments,
which are turned exons, and they are the sequences that code for the ultimate protein product. And then there are short
non-coding segments of RNA that get cut or spliced out and this would be the haircut that I alluded to earlier and so these are called introns, and this is accomplished by a large molecular entity called the spliceosome. So the spliceosome binds on
either side of an intron, loops the intron into a circle, and then cleaves it off, and then ligates the two cut ends of the
exposing exons together, kind of cinches them together. And an easy way to
remember which sequences are exons, which ones are introns, is that exons exits the nucleus and introns stay in the nucleus so exons kind of stands for exit. Now even though the mRNA has gotten its nice little haircut,
it's not quite ready to leave the nucleus just yet. It has to grab what is called a 5' prime cap and a 3' prime poly-A tail. Now what are those things
that I just mentioned? So a 5' prime cap refers to changes at the 5' prime end of the mRNA and remember that this
is the phosphate end of the nucleotide bases in the mRNA and some people like to remember this as F for five prime and for fosphate so that's how you can kind of keep the two ends straight. And capping at the 5' prime end converts this end of the mRNA to a 3' prime end by a 5' prime to 5' prime linkage which basically just protects the mRNA from exonucleases which degrade foreign RNA. The cap also promotes ribosomal binding for translation and also
helps the regulation of nuclear export of the mRNA. Now the poly-A tail, that
goes on the other end, the 3' prime end of the mRNA which has the terminal hydroxyl group and so what do I mean
when I say poly-A tail? Well, poly-A tail refers
to polyadenylation in which multiple adenosine monophosphates or basically adeonine bases are added to act as a buffer for exonucleases in order to increase the half life of mRNA and again, protect it from degradation. And so the purpose of the poly-A tail is really very similar to the 5' prime cap which is basically to
protect from degradation, help with promoting translation, and regulating nuclear export. The poly-A tail also does one more thing and it kind of just
helps with transcription termination for the RNA polymerase that's transcribing the messenger RNA. Polyadenylation is catalyzed by an enzyme called polyadenylate polymerase which as the adenosine
monophosphates using adenosine triphosphate as the substrate and the poly-A tail is built until it's about 250 or so nucleotides long. So overall the 5' prime
cap and the poly-A tail help to stabilize the
mRNA for translation. That's the key point
to take home from here. So once the mRNA has
donned its cap and tail and had its introns spliced out, its now ready to exit the nucleus to be translated into a protein. Now additionally, there's one more type of RNA regulation called RNA editing, which is a process that
results in seqeuence variation in the RNA molecule and is catalyzed by various enzymes. RNA editing is relatively rare and these events may include insertion, deletion, and base
substitution of nucleotides within the edited RNA molecule. Now one of these enzymes is called adenosine deaminase acting on RNA or ADAR enzymes which convert specific adenosine residues to
inosine in an mRNA molecule by hydrolytic deamination. Another type of editing is called cytosine deaminase acting on RNA, or CDAR, which involves deamination of cytosine to uridine by cytidine deaminase. RNA editing is currently
being extensively studied in relation to infectious diseases because the editing process alters viral enzymes and their function so kind of an exciting, new emerging concept in
post-transcriptional regulation.