- In the last video, we saw
how to draw dot structures for molecules with single covalent bonds. In this video, we'll talk
about multiple covalent bonds, and so we start the same way
we did in the last video. If I wanted to draw out
a dot structure for C2H4, I would find carbon over here, and once again, carbon in is group four, so it has four valence electrons, so I'm gonna go ahead
and put in once carbon with four valence electrons, and I know I have another
carbon in my dot structure. It also has four valence
electrons, like that, and so immediately, I can
see there's going to be a single covalent bond between
my two carbons, like that. Four hydrogens, and I know
that, since hydrogen is in group one on our periodic table, hydrogen has one valence electron. Now, it makes sense to go
ahead and put two hydrogens on each carbon, so if I
put one hydrogen over here and then another hydrogen on this carbon, I have two more hydrogens,
and so I can go ahead and put in those two hydrogens
on the carbon on the right. When I connect my dots, I
can see that I have a bond between carbon and hydrogen here, and this is not the correct dot structure, because if you count up
the number of electrons around carbons, let's go ahead and do it. Let's do the carbon on the left. I'm going to get two, four, six, and then seven electrons, so with only seven electrons
around each carbon, carbon does not satisfy the octet rule, so the only way for carbon to get an octet of electrons around it would be if this magenta electron moved in here, and this electron moves in here to form a double covalent bond
between those two carbons, and so now, instead of
only having one bond between those carbons, now
there are going to be two bonds around it like that, so I can go ahead and put in my hydrogens, so two on each carbon, and that is the correct dot structure for ethene or ethylene. We can double check by
checking the octet rule here, so if I look at each carbon,
there would be two electrons, four, six, and then eight, so each carbon is following the octet rule for my dot structure. Let's do one for CH20, so if I want to draw the dot structure for the molecular formula CH20, once again, I start with
carbon in the center, so four valence electrons like that, and two hydrogens, so I'll
just put one hydrogen over here on the left and another
hydrogen over here on the right. Oxygen, let's go back to
our organic periodic table to refresh our memory about
how many valence electrons oxygen will have, and we can see it's in group six over here,
so six valence electrons, so I can go ahead and put
in my six valence electrons for oxygen, and so we'll go one, and then two, and then three, and then four, and then five, and then six, like that. And when I start connecting my bonds here, I know there's a bond
between carbon and hydrogen on the left and I know there's a bond between carbon and hydrogen on the right. I know there's a bond between
this carbon and oxygen, and unfortunately, I still
don't have an octet of electrons around my carbon or
around my oxygen, alright? So if I go ahead and highlight
the electrons around carbon, once again, I have two, four, six, and then seven, so I still don't have an octet
of electrons around carbon, and so I need to share an
electron with oxygen here, so carbon is going to
contribute an electron, and oxygen is going to
contribute an electron like that, and so, instead of a single
bond between carbon and oxygen, there's actually going to
be a double bond, like that. There's still two lone pairs of electrons around that oxygen, and
then I have my two hydrogens coming off of my carbon like that, so that is the correct dot
structure for formaldehyde. We can go ahead and double check an octet. Alright, so if I look at this carbon here, it's gonna be two, four, six, and eight, and obviously,
there's also an octet around that oxygen as well, so this is the dot
structure for formaldehyde. Let's do one more example of a molecule with a multiple
covalent bond, so C2H2. So, once again, carbon with
four valence electrons, and I have two carbons this time, so I go ahead and put in my second carbon with four valence electrons like that. I can see, immediately,
a single covalent bond between my two carbons. Now I have two hydrogens, so once again, I'm gonna put one hydrogen on the carbon on the left and connect that for a single covalent bond, and it would make sense
to put the other hydrogen over here on the right and
connect that for another bond. Now, once again, if I look
at the valence electrons for carbon, I have a total of two, four, five, and six, and carbon wants to get to eight. It wants an octet, so it needs
to share two more electrons, so each carbon needs to
share two more electrons so each carbon can get to an octet, so we're gonna go ahead and
move this electron in here, and this electron in here, and then we'd also have
to move these electrons in here as well, so we're going to end up with a triple, a triple bond between my
two carbon atoms there. So, if I go ahead and show now three bonds between my two carbons, and
then a hydrogen on either side, we can double check the
octets on the carbon here, so I'll get out the magenta again, so two, four, six, and eight, so there is now an octet, and so this is the correct dot structure for ethyne or acetylene, and so we've seen how to draw molecules with single and multiple covalent bonds, and next we're going to talk about the hybridization states
of different molecules that contain carbon.