in Johannesburg in June the daily 
low temperature is usually around   3 degrees Celsius and the daily high 
temperature is around 18 degrees Celsius   the temperature is typically halfway 
between the daily high in the daily   low at both 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. 
and the highest temperatures are in the   afternoon right a trigonometric function 
that models the temperature capital T   in Johannesburg lowercase T hours after 
midnight so let's see if we can start to   think about what a graph might look like 
of all of this so this let's say this is   our temperature axis in Celsius degrees 
so that is temperature temperature and   I'm actually going to first I'm going 
to do two different functions so that's   my temperature axis and then this right 
over here is my time in hours so that's   lowercase T time in hours and let's 
think about the range of temperatures   so the daily low temperatures around 
3 degrees Celsius so let's actually   in the high is 18 so let's make this 
right over here 18 this right over   here is 3 and we can also think about 
the midpoint between 18 and 3 that we   hit it both 10 a.m. and 10 p.m. 18 
plus 3 is 21 divided by 2 is 10.5 so   the midpoint or we can say the midline 
of our trigonometric function is going   to be 10 point 5 degrees Celsius 
so let's let me draw the midline   so we're going to essentially oscillate 
around this right over here we're going   to oscillate around this the daily high 
is around 18 degrees Celsius the daily   high is around 18 degrees Celsius and 
the daily low is around 3 degrees the   3 degrees Celsius just like that so 
we're going to oscillate around this   midline we're going to hit the lows and 
highs now to simplify things because we   hit this 10.5 degrees at 10 a.m. and 10 
p.m. to simplify this I'm not going to   tackle their question that they want 
immediately the hour in terms of tea   hours after midnight I'm going to define 
a new function f of T F of lowercase T   which is equal to the temperature 
temperature in Johannesburg where we're   assuming everything is in Johannesburg 
temperature T hours after I'm going to   say two hours after 10:00 a.m. and 
the reason why I'm picking 10 a.m.   is because we know that the temperature 
is right at the midline at 10:00 a.m. T   hours after 10:00 a.m. because if I want 
to graph f of T at T equals zero that   means we're at 10:00 a.m. that means 
that we're halfway between they tell us   we're halfway between the daily low and 
the daily high now what is the period   of this trigonometric function going 
to be well after 24 hours we're back   to we're back we're going to be back to 
10 a.m. so our period is going to be 24   hours so let me put 24 hours there and 
then this is half ways 12 hours so what   happens after 12 hours after 12 hours 
we're back at 10 p.m. where we're back   at the midway between our lows and our 
highs and then after 24 hours we're back   at 10 a.m. again so those are going to 
be points on F of T and now let's think   about what will happen as we go beyond 
as we start at 10 a.m. and go forward   so to go start at 10 a.m. and go for 
they tell us that the hottest part the   hottest part the highest temperatures 
are in the afternoon the afternoon is   going to be around here so we should be 
going up in temperature and the highest   point is actually going to be halfway 
between these two so it's going to be   six hours after 10 a.m. which is 4 p.m. 
so that's going to be the high at 4 p.m.   so let me draw a curve draw our curve 
like this so it'll look like look like   this and then our low so now we're at 10 
p.m. and then you go six hours after 10   p.m. you're now at 4 a.m. which is going 
to be the low this is 18 hours after 10   a.m. after 10 a.m. you're going to be at 
your low temperature roughly right over   there and your curve your curve will 
look something something like this so   what would be before we even try to 
Model T of T let's what would be an   expression and obviously we keep going 
keep going like that we can even go you   know hours before 10:00 a.m. this is 
obviously just keeps on cycling on and   on and on forever now what would be an 
expression for F of T and I encourage   you once again to pause the video and 
try to think about that well one thing   that you say well you say this is could 
be a sine or a cosine function actually   you could model it with either of 
them but it's always easiest to do   the simplest one which which function 
is essentially at its midline at its   midline when when the argument to the 
function is zero well the sine of zero   is zero and if we didn't shift this 
function up or down the midline of   just a sine function without it being 
shifted is is zero so sine of 0 is 0   and then sine begins to increase and 
oscillate like this so it feels like   sine is a good candidate to model it 
with once again you could model it   with either but I have a feeling this 
is going to be a little bit simpler   now let's think about the amplitude well 
how much do we vary what's our maximum   variance from our midline so here we 
are 7.5 above our midline here we are   7.5 below our midline so our amplitude 
is 7.5 and actually let me just do that   in a different color just so you see 
where things are coming from so this   is 7 point 5 this is 7 point 5 so our 
amplitude looks like it's 7.5 and now   what is our period well we are we've 
already talked about it our period is   24 24 hours this distance right over 
here is 24 hours which makes complete   sense after 24 hours you got the same 
point in the day so we would divide 2 pi   by the period divided by 24 times T and 
if you forget hey you know divide 2 pi   by the period here you could just remind 
yourself that what are.what T value will   make us go from so when T is equal to 0 
the whole argument to the sine function   is going to be 0 that's when we're over 
here and then when T is equal to 24 the   whole argument is going to be 2 pi so we 
would have made one rotation around the   unit circle if we think about the input 
into the sine function now we're almost   done if I were to just graph this this 
would be this would be have a midline   around 0 but we see that we've shifted 
we've shifted everything up by 10.5 so   we have to shift everything up by 10.5 
now this is we've just successfully   modelled it and we could simplify 
a little bit we could write this   as pi over 12 instead of 2 pi over 
24 but this right over here models   the temperature in Johannesburg T hours 
after 10 a.m. after 10 a.m. that's not   what they wanted they want us to model 
they want us to model the temperature T   hours after midnight so what would T of 
T be we're going to have to shift this   a little bit so let's just think about 
it let me just write it out so T of T   so T of T this is now we're modeling 
T hours after after midnight so we're   going to have the same amplitude we're 
just going to have the same variance   from the midline so it's going to be 7.5 
times sine of which we do the same color   so you see what I'm changing and not 
changing times the sine of instead of   2 pi over 24 I'll just write pi over 12 
instead of writing T I'm going to shift   T either to the to the right or the left 
and actually you could shift in either   direction because this is a periodic 
function we have to think about how   much we're shifting it so T is going 
to be plus or minus something right   over here I'm going to shift it plus 
ten point five plus ten point five now   this is always a little bit at least in 
my brain I have to think about this in   a lot of different ways so that I make 
sure that I'm shifting it in the right   direction so here at 10 a.m. we were 
at this point when T is equal to zero   this is zero hours after 10 a.m. but 
in this function when is 10 a.m. well   in this function 10 a.m. let me write 
it this way T 10 a.m. is 10 hours after   midnight so T capital T of 10 this is 10 
hours after midnight should be equal to   should be equal to f of 0 because here 
the argument is hours after 10 a.m. so   this is 10 a.m. this right over here 
represents temperature temperature at   10:00 a.m. and this over here if because 
capital did this capital T function this   is hours after midnight this is also 
temperature at 10:00 a.m. so we want   T of 10 to be the same thing as f of 0 
or a st. another way of thinking about   it when F of 0 this whole argument is 
0 so we want this whole argument to be   0 when T is equal to 10 so how would 
we do that well this is t minus 10   notice t of 10 you put a 10 here this 
whole thing becomes 0 this whole thing   becomes zero and you're left with 10.5 
and over here f of zero well the same   thing this whole thing becomes a zero 
and all you're left with over here is   10 point five so T of 10 should be F of 
zero so if we wanted to graph it we've   already answered their question we've 
if we put a 10 here the argument to   the sign becomes zero these two things 
are going to be equivalent but let's   actually graph this so T of 10 so if 
we're graphing capital T T of 10 so this   is 6 12 let's see so this is maybe so 10 
is going to be someplace around here so   T of 10 is going to be the same thing as 
F of 0 so it's going to be like that and   then it's just going to and then we've 
essentially just shifted everything   to the right everything to the right by 
10 and that makes sense because 0 after   whatever hours you are after 10 a.m. 
is going to be 10 more hours to get to   that same point after midnight so your 
curve is going to look so this is going   to be shifted by 10 this is going to be 
shifted by 10 and your curve is going to   look something like let me see if I this 
is going to be shifted by 10 so you can   get I'm just going to get it's going to 
be at 16 hours so let's see it's going   to look something something like that 
and of course it'll keep oscillating   like that so essentially we just have to 
shift it to the right by 10 the argument   we have to replace T with t minus 10 
to do it and this was the logic why.