So in this video,
we're going to show you how to put the antenna on Spout. And this requires a fair
amount of precision. So we want to be really careful
when we put the hot glue on. But what we've done is
we've bent a paperclip out, and you can tell there's a
straight side to the paperclip. And we want to leave one
of those sides completely straight, but we're
going to bend out the rest of the paperclip and
try and get rid of as many of the kinks as we can. But it's important to leave
that side, the last little bit straight and not
bend it because it'll make it a lot easier to connect. So it should look about
like this when you get done. So we're going to
take our Spout bot, we're going to turn
it on its side. If you have a partner,
they can hold it for you. Otherwise, a roll
of tape works well. And you want to make sure that
that antenna points straight down. And we're going to try and
line it up on the switch. So we're going to
put the paperclip, the straight, smooth, flat part
of the paperclip on the switch. And so we're going to
hot glue it in place. And it's easy to get too much
or too little hot glue on this. So you want to make sure
there's enough hot glue to completely cover the
paperclip on both sides. But no more because if you
spill hot glue over it, it'll stick on the switch and
the switch won't work properly. So you'll need to make sure
that it's held in place tightly. And you'll have to hold
it for a little while until the glue turns
opaque or that milky color and is completely cool. And then you'll be ready
to do the other side the exact same way. And you'll have
antennae on your bot. OK. Once you get both of
the antennae done, you're going to want to test
it out and see how it runs. I've leave the LEDs off
for now because we're just interested in looking
at how well the bot runs and what it does. You can see it moves OK. Sort of bumps into things
and backs up a little bit. But I think there's probably a
way we can optimize it and make it run a little bit better.