It's very powerful to understand
how our inputs and outputs can communicate with each
other, or more specifically, how they can be wired together. Now these two things speak
the language of numbers. Our inputs are anything
that is providing data to the brain, so
any of our sensors. For example, let's pretend
we plugged in a light sensor. Now the light sensor
provides a value, and this will depend on
the sensor you're using. In the case of a
light sensor, it's providing a value
between 0 and 100 which represents the intensity
of the current light condition in front of the sensor. Now our outputs are the
opposite-- our motor or our lamp or speaker. Outputs we actually
provide a number to so they know how to behave. And in the case--
if this was a motor, we would provide it direction
and power, but for the speaker, we could provide it multiple
outputs, such as pitch, which is the frequency of a tone,
and we can also send it volume, and these are the two
most important features. Now the powerful
thing to realize is that we could take
this intensity value and plug it in to, say, pitch. So as the environment changes--
if we flip the lights on or grab a flashlight-- you
will actually hear this change in real time using the speaker. So let's grab an input, for
example, our light sensor and an output, for
example, the sound block. And to wire blocks
together, you first have to click on the
bottom of the block, which will expand this little column
here, which will give you access to them, and here are
all my inputs and outputs-- inputs on the left, outputs
on the right-hand side. So remember, we want to
take our light intensity-- and if I scroll down, there
is an intensity output here. And I can click on it
and then drag this wire and I will plug it into
the pitch or tone frequency input on this sound block. Now there's also volume
and other things here. I plugged it into pitch. So now these two blocks
are wired together. So to get a dynamic
behavior, you need to drop this inside
a loop, and then it will continue to
update and you should be able to hear the difference.