In this video,
we're going to see how induction and resonance
affect the activating strength of substituents
on a benzene ring, but before we get to
substituents let's real quickly review
the mechanism for electrophilic aromatic
substitution involving benzene. And so the benzene ring is going
to function as a nucleophile so all the pi electrons
in the benzene ring are negatively
charged, of course, and they're attracted to
positively charged things, like an electrophile. And so the benzene ring is going
to function as a nucleophile, and some of these
pi electrons are going to form a bond
with our electrophile. So we get nucleophile
attacking the electrophile, and the electrophile is
going to add on to our ring. And I'm just going to say
the electrophile adds on to this carbon right here,
which means that this carbon has a plus 1 formal charge, and that
will represent our positively charged sigma complex. So if you could
imagine a substituent on our benzene ring that
somehow increased the electron density in that ring, that would
make that benzene ring even more nucleophilic, and that
increased electron density would help to stabilize the
positively-charged sigma complex, which means the sigma
complex is more likely to form. And so a substituent that
increases electron density we could call that an
electron donating group, and an electron donating
group would activate the ring towards electrophilic
aromatic substitution, which means that the overall
rate of the reaction will be faster than that
compared to benzene. And so we call an electron
donating group an activator. So let me go ahead and
write an activator here. If we thought about
the opposite situation, if we thought about a
substituent on the ring that overall decreased the
electron density in that ring, the ring would not
be as nucleophilic, and you could think
about the ring as being a little more
positively charged and so that would, of
course, destabilized the positively-charged
sigma complex. And so a substituent
that overall decreased the electron
density in the ring, and we could say it's an
electron withdrawing group because it's withdrawing
electron density from the ring. And that would, of
course, deactivate the ring towards electrophilic
aromatic substitution, and so we would call
this a deactivator, and so the reaction would be
slower than that of benzene by itself. Let's see how the concepts
of electron donating groups and electron withdrawing groups
affect activating strength. And we'll start with
strong activators here. So first we can look
at the phenyl molecule, and we can think about this
carbon on our ring in a sigma bond to this oxygen right here. We know oxygen is more
electronegative than carbon, and so the oxygen can
withdraw some electron density from the ring by in
inductive effect, right? So oxygen being more
electronegative, it can pull the electrons
through that sigma bond closer to itself. And so it's withdrawing
some electron density from the ring because
of electronegativity, and so we call this induction
or the inductive effect. So there's some induction
in this molecule. Now, since it's withdrawing
some electron density, you might expect the OH
group to be a deactivator, but that's not what we observe. We observe the OH to
be a strong activator. And so there must
be another effect here to counteract
this inductive effect, and, of course, that
effect is resonance. So let me go ahead and write
resonance right over here. So we can draw several
resonance structures for the phenyl
molecule, but if you think about this lone pair
of electrons on this oxygen, it's right next to
our benzene ring. And so this lone
pair of electrons can participate in
resonance and move in here to form a pi bond, which
would push these electrons in here off onto this carbon so
we can go ahead and draw a pi bond between our oxygen
and our carbon now. There's still a lone pair
of electrons on that oxygen, it's still bonded to a
hydrogen so it has a plus 1 formal charge. And so we have these
pi electrons here and we have these electrons move
out on to this carbon, which gives that carbon a
negative 1 formal charge. And we could keep drawing
more resonance structures, but I'm going to stop there
because the point that I'm trying to make is that we get
to some donation of electron density to the ring
through a pi bond. So let me go ahead and
highlight our pi bond here. So these electrons
move in here to form a pi bond between that
carbon and that oxygen, and so we get
overlap of P orbitals between this carbon
and this oxygen. So let me go ahead and
sketch that really fast. So we have a carbon
and we have an oxygen, and we're going to get
overlap of P orbitals. Since carbon and oxygen
are on the same period on the periodic table,
their P orbitals are pretty much the
same size, and that means that you get good overlap
and therefore, the oxygen is able to donate some electron
density to that ring there. So the lone pair of
electrons on the oxygen is conjugated into the
pi system of that ring, and so that's overall, an
electron donating effect, right? You're increasing the
electron density in the ring, and so the resonance effect
says that the OH group is an electron donating group,
which would, of course, make it a strong activator. And that's, of course, what
we observe experimentally. And so we can say that
the resonance effect beats the inductive effect
when you're talking about a strong
activator here, so an atom that has a
lone pair of electrons next to your benzene ring. Now, the same idea holds
true for amylin down here. So once again,
thinking about nitrogen compared it to this
carbon, that nitrogen is more electronegative
and so it's going to withdraw
some electron density from the ring via the inductive
effect through that sigma bond. So I can think about
drawing an arrow showing the movement of electrons
towards nitrogen. Now, nitrogen is not as
electronegative as oxygen there so it's not
really withdrawing quite as much electron
density via induction. Since that nitrogen has a
lone pair of electrons on it, it can also participate
in resonance. And so just like the
previous example, I could take this
lone pair of electrons right next to the
ring, move it into here to form a pi bond to push
these electrons in here off onto that carbon. So I could go ahead and show
one possible resonance structure here. So I could show my pi
bond between my carbon and my nitrogen. The nitrogen would now
be positively charged, and we would have a lone pair of
electrons on this carbon, which would make that carbon
negatively charged. And once again, you could draw
more resonance structures, but we just don't have the
time for that in this video. And so once again, this
lone pair of electrons is actually conjugated into
the pi system of the ring right there. And so that's
increasing the electron density of the ring, which makes
the ring more nucleophilic, stabilized the
positively-charged sigma complex, and therefore, it's
overall an electron-donating a group, which makes
it an activator. And we could also
think about the P orbitals of this carbon
and this nitrogen so they are also, of
course, in the same period on the periodic table so when
you sketch in your P orbitals here you can make them
pretty much the same size, and so you get good overlap
of those P orbitals. Now, amylin is actually
even more reactive than the phenyl
example, and that's because of the nitrogen
being less electronegative than oxygen. And so in the pi bond
here since this nitrogen-- let me go ahead and
highlight our pi electrons, let's use green this
time-- so these pi electrons right
here, since nitrogen is less electronegative than
oxygen that means that those pi electrons are better able
to be conjugated into the pi system of the ring since
the nitrogen isn't pulling on them as much
as the oxygen is. And so since you get a little
bit more electron density donated to your ring
because of the nitrogen being less electronegative that
means increase electron density makes this a better
electron-donating group, which activates the ring better
towards electrophilic aromatic substitution. And so in the next
video, we're going to use the same concepts
of induction and resonance, and we're going to analyze
a moderate activator, a weak activator,
and we'll also look at an example of a
weak deactivator that is still an ortho/para director.