So this circuit combines
the best of both worlds. We've got the forward and
the reverse capability with this one because we added
something called a "single pole double throw lever switch." It's called a "lever
switch" because it's got a little lever here. And this is "single
pole double throw" because there's one
pole and two throws. And that's the term for these
electrical contacts here. We're going to go ahead
and turn our switch on, which will let power flow. You can see the
motor is spinning. And if we want to
back the motor up-- we want it to go the
opposite direction-- we can push on this switch. And you can see it causes
the motor to reverse. And what's happening
is the contact inside that switch is switching
from the red wire, which is the positive lead,
to the black wire, which is the negative. That causes the power to
flow the other direction. And if you're asking,
how does it do that, well, it does that
because it's flowing through only one
battery at a time. So it's going through this
battery in this direction under normal circumstances. And then, when the
switch is bumped, it goes and flows backwards
through this battery. That causes the motor
to flip back and forth. Now, if we take that
and we combine it with another switch
and another motor, we can make the Spout turn
around and go back and forth in different directions. OK. So this is the combination
of all the previous circuits that we've talked about. We've got our lights, and our
light switch circuit here. I believe that's this circuit. So you can see that
the lights turn on when we turn that circuit. And then we have
our motor circuit. And we have our two single pole
double throw lever switches here. Here's another example of what
it looks like on the inside. You can see there. We basically extended the
switch by just hot-gluing the paperclips on
to the end, and that makes it easier for the switch
to bump against the wall. It also gives it
some more leverage so it doesn't take
quite as much force to get the switch to trigger. OK. Let's go ahead and turn it on. So you can see it's
moving in this direction. It's moving forward. It'll be carrying Spout in the
forward direction right now. And then, if it
gets bumped, you'll notice that, when this side gets
bumped, this motor backs up. And then, if this one gets
bumped, this motor backs up. Again, so what the
switch is doing is it's switching the power
flowing from one battery-- right now it's flowing from
one battery in one direction-- switches it to the
other battery that's flowing in the other
direction and causes the motor to spin backwards, which
means that Spout can back up. If they both get hit,
they both back up. So that's what's going
on inside of Spout.