So you're going
to build a spider. Let's take a look at
what's inside the kit. We've got a click
and stick tap light. That's going to be
the body for spider. And then we have some
header pin connectors. We've got our Arduino Nano
and some popsicle sticks. So you'll need those. And we've also got some
O rings and an L298 motor controller, two
five volt motors. Those are toy motors. We've got two bottle
caps with holes drilled in them that are large
and two bottle caps with holes drilled in them that are small. And then we have two
nine volt batteries. All right. The next thing is we
have our mini USB cable. So that's going to
allow us to connect our computer to our Arduino. Then we've got four header
pin connector jumper wires. And these are female
to female jumper wires. And then we also have some wire. You're going need
that to connect all the different parts. And two nine volt
battery connectors. So you'll need those to bring
the power from the batteries to your motor controller. We also have a washer there. That's a fender washer. And then two three color LEDs. That's a red, blue,
and green LED. And we need also two resistors. There's one still
in the box there. And we need a paper clip. You'll also need electrical
tape or shrink wrap. You can use either to
cover up the exposed electrical connections. And so now let's take
a look at the tools we're going to need to put
all this stuff together. So we'll push this all aside. So we're going to
need a wire stripper. Now you can also use
scissors or nipper pliers to strip the insulation
off the wire. Here's a nipper pliers. Recommend using
one of those too. And then a regular pliers that
can be used to crimp things. And then we have our
needle nose which can be used to bend
the wire in a loop. We have a small
screwdriver, which we're going to need to
use and a hot glue gun. And we're also going to
need a soldering iron, which will allow us to connect all
of the different wires together using solder and gives a
more permanent connection. If you decide to
use the shrink wrap, you'll also need a heat gun.