In the last video, we
saw two different ways to form an epoxide
from an alkene. The first way was to
add a peroxy acid. The second way was to first
form a halohydrin using bromine in water and then using
sodium hydroxide to start an intramolecular
Williamson ether synthesis to form our epoxide. In this video, we'll look
at the stereochemistry of epoxide formation for
either of these two reactions. And if we start
with a cis-alkene, so our hydrogens are on the
same side of the double bond, or you can think
about the R groups as being on the same side. For the product, the
R groups are still going to be on the
same side of where the double bond used to be. If you're looking
at a trans-alkene-- so I know this is trans
because my hydrogens are on opposite sides-- you
think about the R groups being on opposite sides
of the double bond. And in the product,
the R groups are still going to be on
opposite sides of where the double bond used to be. So let's look at a reaction
involving stereochemistry. So if I start out with
an alkene-- and I'm going to put a
methyl group here. And I'm going to put an
ethyl group over here. And then I'm going to have
my hydrogens like that. And if I react this alkene in
either of those two reagents-- so I will just go ahead
and put ditto marks again. So either of those two are going
to give me the same products. If I think about the formation
of an epoxide-- so I know I'm going to make an epoxide. And I know I need
to have those R groups on opposite sides of
where the double bond used to be. So one possible product would be
to have the ethyl group coming out at me in space. And then the methyl
group would therefore need to be going away from
me in space like that. So if that's my product-- at
this carbon over on the left-- I must have my hydrogen
going away from me in space. And at this carbon
over here on the right, I must have my hydrogen coming
out at me in space like that. So that's one possible product. I could actually
draw another product where my R groups are on
opposite sides of where the double bond used to be. So I could have my ethyl group
going away from me in space at the carbon on the left, and I
could therefore, have my methyl group coming out at me on the
carbon on the right like that. And so this would have a
hydrogen coming out at me, and then this carbon would
have a hydrogen going away from me like that. So I have two possible products. And these are actually
enantiomers of each other. So you're actually going to
create a racemic mixture, 50% of one enantiomer
and 50% of the other one as well because this reaction
creates two new chirality centers. So if I take a look
at this molecule, these two carbons are
chirality centers. So there's stereochemistry
at both of those carbons. So when you're drawing
the enantiomers, if I start with that
molecule on the left, I have my ethyl group
coming out at me. All I have to do is reverse
that absolute configuration to make the ethyl
group going away from me for the
enantiomer on the right. If I'm looking at this
chirality center over here, I have at my methyl
groups going away from me. All I have to do is reverse
that absolute configuration, have the methyl group
coming out at me. So these two are
enantiomers of each other. Let's look at the details of
the formation of these two enantiomers, and
then we'll also name them using stereochemistry. So if we start with the
alkene over here on the left-- so we're starting
with that alkene-- and I think about
these two carbons-- these two carbons
are sp2 hybridized, meaning the molecule will be
planar at those two carbons. So I could think
about that alkene as being planar at
those two carbons. So if I'm going to go ahead and
draw that molecule here-- so I'm going to put my
methyl group over here on the left and the
hydrogen over here. And then I'm going to
have a hydrogen over here. And then an ethyl
group like that. So it's the same molecule as
this one over here on the left. It's Just rotated a little bit. And I know that
those two carbons on either side of
my double bonds are sp2 hybridized, meaning that
that portion of the molecule is planar. So I can think
about that portion of the molecule as planar,
and I can think, therefore, about the oxygen adding from
either side of that plane. The oxygen could add
from the top of the plane or the oxygen could
add below the plane. So let's go ahead
and draw the results of those two different
ways of adding the oxygen. So over here on
the left, I'm going to think about what
happens to the molecule when the oxygen adds to
the top of that plane. So if the oxygen adds
to the top of the plane, I'm going to go ahead
and keep my methyl group and my ethyl group on
opposite sides of where the double bond used to be. And, therefore,
the two hydrogens are also going to be on
opposite sides of where the double bond used to be. And I'm going to show the oxygen
adding to the top of the plate. So, therefore, my epoxide
would look like that. So that's one possible
way to form your epoxide. So let's go ahead think about,
what would the epoxide look like if the oxygen added
from below that plane? So if the oxygen added from
below the plane, once again we need to think about
keeping our methyl group and our ethyl group on
opposite sides of where the double bond used
to be like that. And the hydrogens
are also going to be on opposite sides of
where the double bond used to be like that. And then we're going to
show our oxygen adding to form our epoxide
from below the plane. So our epoxide might
look like that. So these are my two
possible products. And these are enantiomers
of each other, but it's kind of hard
to see that as we've drawn them right here. So let's see if we can
get a different vantage point on our epoxide products. So I'm going to put
my eye right here, and I'm going to stare at
this epoxide like that. OK. So if I'm staring
at that expoxide, I could redraw my epoxide here. So I'm going to put that portion
of the molecule like that. Now, if I'm staring
at it that way, then I'm going to first focus
in on the carbon on my left. So that would be this
carbon down here. And I can see that there's an
ethyl group coming out at me. So I'm going to go ahead and
draw an ethyl group coming out at me in space. And I can see that there's
a hydrogen going away from me in space. Hopefully, it's obvious
this hydrogen is going away from me in space. So I can represent that. So I'll put my in here to
show my hydrogen going away. And now we're going
to take a look at the carbon on the right side. So this carbon on the
other side right here. This time, I can see that
the hydrogen is coming out at me in space, so I'm
going to go ahead and draw the hydrogen coming out
at me in space like that. And, therefore, this
methyl group back here is going away from me in space. So I can go ahead and
show that methyl group going away like that. So that's one enantiomer. Let's go ahead and try to redraw
the one on the right here. So, again, if I'm staring
at this epoxide like that, what do I see? Well, I will see the epoxide
as being upside down, so the oxygen will be down here. And I can see that,
if I'm looking at the carbon on the left
side of my vantage point-- so that would be this
carbon down here-- I can see there's an ethyl
group coming out at me in space. So here's my ethyl group
coming out at me in space. And this hydrogen would
be going away from me. So I'll represent that hydrogen
going away from me like that. And then, if we move to the
carbon on the right side here, I can see that this hydrogen
is coming out at me in space. So I can go ahead and draw
the hydrogen coming out at me in space. And the methyl group back here
would be going away from me in space, so I can have methyl
group as a dash like that. So this is one of my products. And, again, it's
still not obvious that these are enantiomers. So this is where the
model set comes in handy. So if you make this
molecule on the right and then you hold
this oxygen and you rotate this oxygen
up-- much easier to see with the model set
right in front of you-- you will find that this molecule
is the exact same molecule as the one that we're
going to draw right here. So if we rotate it so the
oxygen is now pointing upwards, that's actually going to
take this hydrogen back here and move it to the front. So when you're drawing
that molecule rotated, that hydrogen is going to
move to the front, which pushes the ethyl
group to the back. So the ethyl group is actually
going to the back here. Same thing with
this methyl group. This methyl group
was in the back. When you rotate it that
way, the methyl group is going to end up coming
out at you like that. And then that means
the hydrogen is going to go away
from you in space. So now we can see,
hopefully, that these two are enantiomers to each other. And let's go ahead and think
about naming this product. So if I were going to
name these two molecules, I have to think
about how to do it. So I need to find my
longest carbon chain, and I want to give my epoxy
substituent the lowest number possible. So if I'm going to
number my carbon chain, I would make this carbon number
one, this carbon number two, three, four, and five like that. So I'm going to name
it as a pentane base. So this would be
pentane like that. And I can see my epoxy occurs
between carbons two and three. So it would be
2,3-epoxypentane like that. So this [INAUDIBLE] would
be 2,3-epoxypentane. This one would be too. So I can go ahead and write
2,3-epoxypentane like that. But now I have to think about
the stereochemistry at carbons two and three. So that makes things
a little bit trickier. So I'm going to look at
the enantiomer on the left and I'm going to redraw
the enantiomer on the left. So I'm going to redraw this
one right down here, and let's see if we can start to
assign some stereochemistry. So I have my hydrogen
coming out at me. I have my methyl group going
away from me like that. This ethyl group is
coming out at me. This hydrogen is
going away from me. Let's start with this carbon. If I want to figure out
the absolute configuration of that carbon, I have to think
about what atoms are directly connected to that carbon. So let me go ahead and
draw a carbon at here. So that is one of the
atoms directly attached to that carbon in blue. So the carbon in
blue is directly attached to this carbon,
this oxygen, this hydrogen, and this carbon right down here. So those would be
the four atoms. So if I'm trying to
determine priority, I think about the atomic number. I know that oxygen has the
highest atomic number out of those four atoms. So the oxygen's going
to get a number one. Hydrogen has the lowest priority
so hydrogen gets a number four. So now I have to think
about these two carbons, because if there's a tie, I have
to think about what those two carbons are attached to. Well, the carbon on the
right-- so this carbon right here-- this carbon right
here is attached to an oxygen. So let me go ahead
and write this here. The carbon on the right is
directly attached to an oxygen. It's directly attached--
over here, this oxygen. It's directly
attached to a carbon and it's directly
attached to a hydrogen. So oxygen, carbon, hydrogen. Let's go ahead and look
at the carbon on the left, so this carbon right here. What is that carbon attached to? It's attached to another carbon
over here and two hydrogens. So CHH. So the oxygen is going to
beat the carbon in terms of atomic number, so
this carbon on the right is going to get
highest priority. So this carbon is going
to get a number two here, and that means this carbon is
going to get a number three. So for absolute configuration,
my lowest priority group is going away from me and I'm
traveling around this way. So I'm going clockwise, so it's
an R absolute configuration at that carbon. Let's go ahead and, since
that drawing's really busy, let's go ahead and
draw it one more time. And we'll figure out the
absolute configuration of the other carbon. So let's see. We still have my ethyl
group coming out at me. Still have the hydrogen
going away from me. Still have this hydrogen
coming out at me. Still have this methyl group
going away from me like that. So if I'm trying to find
the absolute configuration for this carbon, we're going
to approach it the same way. Look at the atom directly
attached to that carbon. So it would be oxygen,
carbon, carbon, hydrogen. So priorities. The oxygen gets
highest priority. The hydrogen gets
lowest priority. And then this carbon over
here is directly attached to an oxygen, so this is going
to get second highest priority. And that makes this methyl group
over here the third highest priority. So the one, two, three
is going around this way, which is counterclockwise. Which makes you think it might
be S, but remember that trick that I told you about
in an earlier video. It looks S, but this
hydrogen is coming out. So all I have to
do is switch that, and that takes care of the fact
that my lowest priority group is not pointing away from me. So it looks S, but since the
hydrogen is coming out at me, I can say with
confidence that it's R for an absolute configuration. So we can go ahead
and finalize the name. So at carbon two
and at carbon three, we have an R absolute
configuration. So the name of this
enantiomer would be 2R,3R-2,3-epoxypentane. And for this enantiomer
over here on the right, I know that it's the
enantiomer so I just have to switch the
absolute configuration. So this one is going to
be 2S,3S-2,3-epoxypentane. And we don't time in this
video to go ahead and assign absolute configuration to
the enantiomer on the right. But you can go ahead
and do so for practice. And you should get 2S,3S for
its absolute configuration. Now, this is a problem
because, if you're forming a racemic
mixture of your epoxide, that's not always what you want
to do in organic chemistry. So there are ways to use
chiral catalysts that allow you to select out for
one of these enantiomers. And we won't cover it
in any of these videos since these are more intro
organic chemistry videos, but just be aware that
it is possible to be selective in which
enantiomer you produce.