In this video,
we're going to look at the halogenation of benzene. And we'll start
with bromination. So here's a benzene ring. And to this, we're going
to add some bromine. And our catalyst will
be aluminum bromide. And you could've used
FeBr3 instead of AlBr3. That's fine. And the end result
is substitution of a bromine atom for an
aromatic proton on your ring. Let's look at the mechanism
for this electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction. And if I look at the aluminum
bromide catalyst, and I can see there are six electrons
around the aluminum atoms. So here's two, and four,
and then a total of six. And so because of aluminum's
position on the periodic table, it can actually accept
two more electrons. So the aluminum bromide is going
to function as an electron pair acceptor, which is the
definition for a Lewis acid. The bromine is going to
function as a Lewis base. It's going to be an
electron pair donor. So we could think about
this lone pair of electrons in here being donated to
the aluminum and a bond forming between that
bromine and that aluminum. So let's go ahead and draw the
result of that Lewis acid base reaction. And so now this bromine is
bonded to this aluminum. This aluminum is still bonded
to these other bromines here. I'm not going to draw in
those lone pairs of electrons around those bromines
just to save some time. Let's follow those electrons. So the electrons
in magenta, those are the ones that were
donated to the aluminum and forming of this bond between
the bromine and the aluminum. That would give the aluminum
a negative 1 formal charge. And this bromine would get
a plus 1 formal charge, like that. Now technically,
this is the complex that's going to react with our
benzene ring in our mechanism. But it's kind of hard to see the
electrophile in this complex. So let me just go
ahead and show you what you can think about
the electrophile being. And then we'll come
back to this complex in the mechanism with benzene. So if these electrons
in here moved off onto the bromine on the
right, the bromine on the left will have lost a bond. So it would now
only be surrounded by three lone pairs of
electrons, giving it a plus 1 formal charge. And it simplifies things
to think about this as being the electrophile
in your mechanism for electrophilic
aromatic substitution, even though,
technically, it's going to be this top
complex here that's going to react with
our benzene ring. So if we form Br+ over
here on the right, we would have this bromine now
still bonded to this aluminum. And it would have three lone
pairs of electrons around it now. So let me go ahead and highlight
these electrons in here in red. I'm saying they're going to
kick off onto that bromine there like that. And the aluminum,
of course, is still bonded to these
three other bromines. And it still has a negative
1 formal charge like that. So we've generated
our electrophile. Or this is one way
of simplifying it, to think about the Br+ as
being our electrophile. And so that could react
with our benzene ring. So we come back to
our benzene ring here, and we think about Br+ as
being the electrophile. And so, remember, electrophile
means loving electrons. And so it is attracted
to electrons. And of course, electrons
are negatively charged. And they're attracted
to positive things. So you could think
about these pi electrons in your benzene ring as
functioning as a nucleophile. And so we get a nucleophile
attacking an electrophile here. And so let's go ahead
and show the results of that nucleophilic attacks. So we have our ring. We have our pi
electrons in our ring. And you can show
the bromine adding to either one of these carbons. It doesn't really matter. Since they are
equivalent, I'm going to show the bromine adding
to the top carbon there. So the top carbon already
has a hydrogen on it. And we're going to say that
these electrons in here add on to the bromines. Let me go and
highlight the electrons that we're talking about. So these Pi electrons in here
function as a nucleophile, form a bond with that
bromine like that. We took a bond away from
this carbon down here. So we're actually
going to get a plus 1 formal charge at that carbon. So we make a carbocation. Now remember, technically, it's
actually this complex up here that's reacting with benzene. So we could think about
it better mechanisms, or a more accurate
mechanism, as being these electrons in
magenta going up to here, attacking that bromine, and
then the electrons in red here, once again, kicking
off onto this bromine, forming this complex over here. And so that's the more accurate
way of thinking about it. For me, it just simplifies
things to think about Br+ as being an electrophile. So now that we've formed
a carbocation here, we can actually draw
some resonant structures. And so if I took these pi
electrons and moved them into here, let's go ahead
and draw the resulting resonant structure for that. So I would have my ring. I would have these pi electrons. I would have a hydrogen and
a bromine still attached to my ring. And I would move does pi
electrons over to here. So let me go ahead
and highlight those. So these pi electrons
moved over to here, took a bond away from
this carbon this time. And so that's the
one that's going to get a plus 1 formal
charge like that. We could draw another
resonant structure. So these pi electrons up
here could move down there. And let's go ahead and
show the results of that. So once again, we have our ring. We have a hydrogen, a bromine,
these pi electrons are still there, and we get some pi
electrons moving over to here. So let me highlight those now. So these pi electrons right
here move over to here. Took a bond away
from this top carbon, and so that top carbon is going
to get a plus 1 formal charge. And so we have three
resonant structures that we could draw
for this carbocation. And remember, the
actual ion is a hybrid of our three
resonant structures. And we could think
about that hybrid as being a sigma complex. So in electrophilic
aromatic substitution, the last step of the mechanism
is deprotonation of your sigma complex to reform
your aromatic ring. And so we could think about
this complex right here. It's going to
function as a base. And I'm going to say that
these electrons in here could take this proton. And then it these electrons
would move in to here to reform our aromatic ring. So let me go ahead and draw the
product, which is bromobenzene. And since we have a lot
of arrows going on there, let me go and highlight
some electrons, so we can follow them. So let me go ahead and make
these electrons in here blue. So these electrons are
going to move in here to reform our aromatic ring. And these electrons in here, you
could think about this complex as functioning as a base. And so those electrons
pick up that proton. And so you'd form HBr
as another product. So we'd have HBr here, and
I'll highlight those electrons in green like that. And then, of course, we would
also reform our catalyst. So AlBr3, our catalyst has
been reformed in this reaction. And so that's the mechanism
for the bromination of benzene. If you wanted to think
about adding other halogen onto your benzene
ring, let's go ahead and look at chlorination here. So if we started
with a benzene ring, and we wanted to put a
chlorine on our benzene ring, we would add some Cl2. And our catalyst would
be, you could use AlCl3, aluminum chloride, or
you could use FeCl3. It doesn't really matter which
catalyst that you use here. The end result, of
course, would be to substitute in a chlorine
for one of the protons, one of the aromatic protons
on your ring here. And so our product
would be-- let me see if I can
draw this in here. So we would have
our benzene ring. And we would have a
chlorine on our benzene ring to form a chlorobenzene. And if it helps you
to think about HCl as being another product
formed in this reaction, it is. And so these are
just two mechanisms for the halogenation of benzene.