I now want to turn my attention
from all of the craziness that's happening in
Europe and go halfway around the world to one of France's
colonies in the Caribbean, and that's Saint-Domingue. And I know I'm butchering all
of the pronunciations. But Saint-Domingue, and its
modern name is Haiti, is the western half of the island of
Hispaniola, which was the island that Columbus first
stumbled upon when he discovered the New World. The eastern half of the island,
that you don't see here-- I've zoomed in
on the western half. The eastern half is now called
the Dominican Republic. At that time it was called Santo
Domingo and it was in the control of Spain. Let me write that down. So Spain is here. You probably don't see
my yellow that well. And then on this side, France
has colonized-- let me write Spain bolder. There you go. Spain had colonized the eastern
half of the island, France had colonized
the western half. And just to get us up to speed
on the history, in 1492, Columbus showed up and it
was a Spanish colony. And I'm talking about just
the western side. The eastern side continued
to be a Spanish colony. But in 1697, it was officially
given over to the French, but it was a Spanish colony
until then. And then 1697 until the period
that we're talking about right now, which is the late 1700s,
the period of the French Revolution, it was
a French colony. It's a French colony. Now you're probably saying, Sal,
all of this craziness is happening in France. Kings are getting toppled,
people are getting guillotined. There's wars with all
of the empires. Why are you going all the way to
this side of the world and focusing on this small
little island? Well, the big answer, or I
guess the main answer, especially from the perspective
of the French-- there's other historical
reasons why this, I think, is relevant. But the major reason is that
Saint-Domingue at this time was the most-- let me write
that in-- profitable slave colony in the world. Now these colonialists, they
cared about profit pretty much all the time. To a large degree, at this point
in history, that's all they cared about. But you have to think
about it. Remember, what precipitated
the French Revolution-- or what I think was a major
factor-- was that France was broke. So you have this little
island here. It's a slave colony. Their plantations produce tons
of sugarcane, hugely profitable business. Anything that goes on in
Saint-Domingue will matter to France because France
is broke. And not only are they broke,
but they have all of these wars with pretty much
everybody in Europe. So let's go back and remind
ourselves what was actually happening in France
at the time. We'll actually go
back to France. So 1789, you had your
Convocation of the Estates-General. The Third Estate, they were a
little peeved, so they met at the tennis court, they declared
themselves the National Assembly, they had
the Tennis Court Oath. Actually, they declared
themselves the National Assembly, then they were
kicked out of the room. And then they had to do the
Tennis Court Oath, where they promised that they would
create a constitution. And they started talking about
liberty and fraternity and brotherhood and all men are
created equal, all of these great ideas of the
Enlightenment. And while all that was
happening, you had this businessman, Vincent Oge. I don't know if I'm pronouncing
it right. He was a wealthy, mixed-race--
so let me write that down. He was a mixed-race and he was
1/4 African descent and he was 3/4 European, or
French descent. And he was in Paris
on business. And while he was there, the
French Revolution and this Convocation of the
Estates-General started happening, and he said,
gee, you know what? I'm a wealthy, educated guy. I own land in what is now Haiti,
but in Saint-Domingue at the time. He actually owned slaves. I want to be very clear
about this. He owned slaves as well. And he's like, I am just as good
as all of these, I guess you could say, purely European
guys all around me, but I don't get equal rights now. But all of this great stuff is
happening, with talks of a new constitution. Let me get in on this. And so he started lobbying with
several other, I guess you could say, forward-thinking
individuals. He started lobbying
for equal rights. He lobbied for equal rights, the
rights to vote and not to be treated like a second-class
citizen. Now at first, they were
kind of ignored. The National Assembly, they
wanted to do good things, but they didn't want to do something
so extreme as considering this wealthy,
educated, probably well-spoken individual an equal, so they
were rebuffed a bit. But eventually, in March of
1790, the National Assembly passed an amendment that had the
wording, all proprietors ought to be-- and there's some
other stuff in between-- active citizens. Well, Mr. Vincent Oge and his
collaborators say, hey, this is our victory. This is the wording that tells
us, look, anyone who is a proprieter-- I own land, I'm a
proprieter-- it says we ought to be active citizens. This gives us the
right to vote. So he declared that a victory
for his rights, or people like his rights. And so he goes back to
Saint-Domingue and tells the governor, look, all of this
craziness has been happening in France, we have a National
Assembly, and they've essentially given me
the right to vote. Unfortunately, the governor of
Saint-Domingue ignores him, or essentially doesn't listen to
him-- ignores what he has to say, and says, I don't care
what's going on in France. I'm not going to give you
and people like you the right to vote. So this obviously did not make
him a happy individual. He seems like he has everything
going in his favor. Even the national assembly
seems to be going in his favor, but the governor
ignores him. So he starts a revolt
when he returns, and he's essentially rebuffed. He returned in October of 1790,
ignored by the governor, so he starts a revolt. Unfortunately, his revolt
wasn't successful. And I want to be very clear. When he revolted, he wasn't
revolting to abolish slavery, he wasn't revolting to give all
black men on the island the right to vote. He was revolting to give freemen
of color who owned land the right to vote, and that
was probably his mistake in the revolt. I want to give you a little
sense of the demographics of Saint-Domingue at that time. There were 500,000 slaves of
African descent, you had 40,000 white colonialists, and
you had 28,000 mixed-race, freemen of color, or however
you want to describe them. If you're starting revolt to
defend only your rights, you're going to get some subset
of this 28,000 against a very well-armed,
in power, 40,000. Now, if he had thought maybe I
should speak in a little bit broader terms-- he was
essentially trying to become a part of this club, but if he had
spoken in slightly broader terms, maybe he could have
tapped into some of the angst of that 500,000. But he didn't, and so his revolt
was unsuccessful and he was captured. And then in February 1791,
he was executed. So it seems like all
was for naught. He went through all this trouble
to get some freedom. He was ignored, tried
a revolt, his revolt wasn't done that well. He was executed, but it started
to simmer within the consciousness of the people of
African descent at that time. And whether or not his revolt
directly lead to what is going to happen over the next few
years is unclear, but it did happen and at least he was the
first one that really did try to start a revolt
in a major way. But anyway, after he was
executed, there started to be a little bit more murmurrings,
especially in the North. Most of the sugar plantations
were focused around the North, and obviously, the more
plantations, the more profit. And there was actually a voodoo
ceremony that was run by an individual whose name
was Dutty Boukman. And I looked for pictures
of him. I couldn't find any. Unfortunately, there aren't. He ran this voodoo ceremony
where he essentially instigated a slave uprising in
Haiti, or what is now Haiti, but in Saint-Domingue. Remember, look at those
demographics. As you could imagine, if the
slaves themselves were to rise up against everyone else on
the island, you could imagine-- even though they might
not be as well organized or as well equipped as the other
members-- just by sheer force, they should probably
do pretty good. And so in 1791, in August
1791, an all-out slave rebellion begins. Now you can imagine,
this scares France. Putting aside all of the things
of the Revolution and all these new notions from the
Enlightenment, here is your most profitable colony in the
world, and all of a sudden there's a revolt. People on both sides of the
equation are getting slaughtered, plantations
are getting burned. From the new government in
France's point of view, that's just going to hurt their
own profitability. This is at a time, remember,
France is broke. They're at wars with
other countries. So France sends a delegation,
headed by this guy right there. His name was-- and I know
I'm butchering the pronunciations-- Sonthonax. I don't know the best
way to pronounce it. And it was him plus 6,000
or 7,000 troops. And they essentially were sent
from France to put down the slave rebellion, to kind
of get things back to the way they were. And in order to kind of
consolidate everyone on France's side right here, France
in April 1792-- so let me write this down. The Legislative Assembly, you
might remember, a new constitution was created at
the end of 1791, and that entailed a new Legislative
Assembly. They essentially gave full
citizenship to all free people of color. So unfortunately, Vincent
Oge was a little bit ahead of his time. If he had just waited a
couple of years, he wouldn't have had to revolt. Or maybe he helped to
precipitate this. So it's not clear. Maybe his revolt, which maybe
helped precipitate the eventual slave revolt, which
eventually might have helped the Legislative Assembly come
to terms with this idea. Maybe he made it happen or maybe
it would have happened on its own, but they made
full citizens out of free people of color. And they probably did that-- you
could view it kind of in a positive or a negative spin. The positive spin was this is
consistent with the ideas of the Enlightenment and
the Revolution. Or if you want to kind of view
a more strategizing view on it, they probably said, hey,
there's all this craziness going on in Haiti, if we can at
least get these people on our side, we might be able
to properly suppress these people over here. And let's be clear. Many of these mixed-race freemen
of color, they owned slaves themselves. So from their own self-interest,
they were actually very similar to the
white colonialists in Saint-Domingue at that time. If they were a little bit more
strategic about it, it might have been just to kind of
consolidate the power on the free people on the island, or
the landowners on the island. But they sent that message with
Sonthonax and 6,000 to 7,000 troops to get things
back in order. But you might remember-- and
even that-- this made many people very unhappy,
even on the island. As some of those white
colonialists at that time, they weren't the most liberal
thinking people and they probably didn't appreciate this
idea of freemen of color being able to have all of the
same rights as they did. So there was obviously a lot
of antagonism against this guy, against Sonthonax
right there. And then you might remember that
in February 1793-- we saw that in the previous video,
or in several videos ago-- February 1793, you start having
war with Great Britain. And Great Britain had control
of this, right here. That is Jamaica. Just to be clear, in green
right here, this is Saint-Domingue. And right here, this
is Santo Domingo, controlled by the Spanish. So you had a big problem. Here he is, Sonthonax
right there. He's antagonized some of the
whites, he's trying to put down a slave rebellion,
or at least get things back to normal. And then all of a sudden you
have the British over here, and you have a lot of these
white colonialists that start saying, hey, if France is going
to be like that, we're going to side with
the British. We're going to side with the
British or we're going to get help from the British and we're
going to use that help from the British to essentially
get our way back in Saint-Domingue. Now Sonthonax, as far as I can
tell, he was of a more liberal persuasion in that he was
sympathetic to the plight definitely of people of
mixed-race, and even to the plight possibly of slaves
themselves. But also, for strategic reasons,
he saw the writing on the wall as well. He said, gee, I have 500,000
slaves and we need to fend off the British. This is a pretty bold action. In the history of slavery, this
is actually one of the most significant declarations. In 1793, in August of 1793--
it might be a reflection of his own ideas, or it might have
just been because of the threat from Britain-- Sonthonax
declares freedom for all the slaves. He wasn't saying that they would
have all of the same rights as land owning
men, but he's essentially abolishing slavery. Initially, he did it just in
the North, but in September and October, he eventually
extended it to all of the French possessions in
Saint-Domingue. Now you could imagine the slaves
that were revolting this entire time, they're
a little bit suspicious of this gentleman. He was, it looks like, sent to
Saint-Domingue, or what is now Haiti, to put down
the uprising. He shows up with 6,000
or 7,000 troops. He tries to side with
essentially the enemies of the slaves to put down
the uprising. And now all of a sudden, when
the British look like a bit of a threat, he's like, hey, I'm
ending slavery by myself. I am just declaring slavery
to be over. And they've been tricked before
and they're saying, this is probably some type of a
trick just to make us become a little passive so that they
can get back at us. And so their leaders were a
little bit suspicious of it, but then in February of 1794,
this was ratified. His declaration was ratified
by the French National Convention. And by the time word got to
the freed slaves, or the rebelling slaves on the island--
so we're now in May 1794-- the rebel slaves'
leader-- and this is a super important name to know--
Toussaint L'Ouverture-- he was the leader of the rebels, and he
was a self-educated former slave himself. And actually he proves himself
over and over again to be one of the best military
generals and actually in much of history. In May 1794, Toussaint
L'Ouverture-- I'll write his name twice-- decides to
essentially join sides with the French Republic, join
sides with Sonthonax. Now once again, let's
look at the numbers. You have Toussaint
L'Ouverture. He is essentially the
leader of these 500,000 newly freed slaves. This is essentially the military
of the island. He is now the leader
of the island. So now he is essentially, you
could almost view him as the general or the governor of the
island, of this colony. Despite the fact that he had
very good leadership qualities, he also
had a bit of a megalomaniacal side for himself. And so he actually declared
himself governor for life. In 1801, he issues a
constitution that declares himself governor for life. And in his defense, this wasn't
that unusual for this time in the world. I mean, you look across
the Atlantic, look with Napoleon's doing. He takes over the French
Republic, he essentially is declaring himself emperor
and what not for life. And this guy says, hey, I have
the same right to do it. I've led these people to
essentially their freedom. They trust me. I'll declare myself
governor for life. And also in his defense-- and
this also speaks to him being a step ahead of many of the
rulers at this time-- is that he didn't have just plain old
slash and burn tactics. He actually did enforce
a lot of discipline amongst his troops. And we'll see one of his
right-hand men, Dessalines-- I know I'm pronouncing it wrong--
he was much more savage with the people that
he was fighting against. But Toussaint L'Ouverture was
very disciplined and when he came to power, he actually did
not try to get revenge on the mixed-race or on the white
plantation owners. He realized that, hey,
you know what? We are a new people in charge
of what is essentially a new country-- or in his mind it's a
new country-- but let's not try to rock too many boats. Let's try to kind of keep our
society going in some reasonable way so that
we don't just ruin ourselves into oblivion. And he also did not declare
independence from France. So that's an important
point too. He didn't want to completely
disjoint themselves from France, so no independence. He was just happy essentially
being part of the French empire, but he himself
will be the governor. You could imagine
on two levels, Napoleon was not happy. We we remember, in 1799, and
especially 1800, Napoleon comes to power, calls himself
the First Council. And he's not happy on
essentially two grounds. One, there's this upstart here
declaring himself governor for life of this island. No one can do that
but Napoleon. The other problem that Napoleon
had is, all of a sudden, once you lose 500,000
slaves and they are now freemen and you now have to pay
them maybe slightly better wages instead of just making
them do what you want and just extracting all the profits, the
island, the colony becomes much, much less profitable. So in the back of his mind, he
also wanted to reinstate slavery and you'll see that he
does it explicitly later on. So he sends his brother-in-law. You need a dirty job to do, you
got to send someone you trust. He sends his
brother-in-law Charles Leclerc with 40,000 troops-- so Napoleon
is definitely taking the situation seriously-- with
40,000 troops to essentially take back the island from
Toussaint L'Ouverture. And so you imagine there's this
huge battle that goes on on the island of Saint-Domingue,
or the western half of the island,
or the part that's controlled by the French. And eventually, they start to
get the upper advantage. It doesn't help, the fact that
Toussaint L'Ouverture's-- some of his closest generals or his
closest aides, when they kind of see the writing on the wall,
when they see that this guy-- in the next video, I'll
talk about how barbaric some of the things this
guy did was. But once some of Toussaint
L'Ouverture's generals started to see the writing
on the wall, they actually turned on him. And one of them was-- he
actually ends up completing the revolution, but while he
was fighting for Toussaint L'Ouverture-- this is
Jean-Jacques Dessalines-- him and some of the other right-hand
men to Toussaint L'Ouverture, he actually joins
the side of Leclerc. Leclerc is kind of making it
look like he's not trying to reinstate slavery, he's not
trying to take citizenship away from people of
African descent. He makes it look like he's
only trying to take L'Ouverture off of
his high horse. So this guy says, OK, fine,
for the betterment of Saint-Domingue, I'm with you. And at that point, Toussaint
L'Ouverture is essentially in a very tough situation. So Leclerc says, hey, Toussaint,
let's have some negotiations and maybe we can
figure out some way for you to assimilate you and the people
you're leading into essentially Napoleon's--
what is now turning into Napoleon's empire. So Toussaint L'Ouverture-- being
a kind of upstanding individual who trusts people and
a man of honor-- he says, oh, this Charles Leclerc must
be a man of honor as well. So he meets with him to
discuss the terms of assimilation. Well, it turns out Charles
Leclerc was not a man of honor. Maybe I could draw some devil
horns on him right there. And he, when Toussaint
L'Ouverture shows up by himself for a very civilized
meeting, he gets some people to arrest him, capture him, and
then send him on a boat to France, and essentially
Toussaint L'Ouverture dies in France in a prison. So I'm going to leave
this video here. It's kind of a very
sad moment. You have freedom for the slaves
temporarily, you have this major historic figure
Toussaint L'Ouverture leading the slaves and trying to
establish a new government. But then it gets violently
suppressed by Napoleon's henchman, by Charles Leclerc,
his brother-in-law. And I'm going to finish this
video just with a quote from Toussaint L'Ouverture because it
kind of foreshadows what's going to happen in
the next video. So this is actually something
that he said on the boat to France after being captured. Let me make the whole
quote here. "In overthrowing me, you have
cut down in Saint-Domingue only the trunk of the
tree of liberty. It will spring up again from the
roots, for they are many and they are deep."