Now that we know all
of our reactions, let's see if we can put
those reactions together to synthesize some
simple organic compounds. And so our goal is to make
this molecule from benzene. And one approach
that you can use is the concept of
retrosynthesis. So you try to think backwards,
and you think to yourself, what can be an immediate
precursor to this molecule? Well, to do that,
we have to analyze the groups that are
attached to our ring. And so if I look at
this bromine up here, I know this bromine is
an ortho/para director, because I know it has lone
pairs of electrons around it. So this bromine is an
ortho/para director. But look at the nitro group. I know this is a meta director. I know it's meta
because there's a plus 1 formal charge on that nitrogen. And then, over here,
for this acyl group attached to our ring, I know
this is also a meta director, because this carbonyl
carbon right here, is partially
positive, like that. And so when we try to figure
out which of these groups was added last, it makes sense
that the bromine was added last because this bromine
right here is meta to both our nitro
group and our acyl group. And so we can go ahead
and draw the precursor. We go ahead and just
take the bromine off. So we're left with
a benzene ring. And we have an acyl
group on our ring, and we also have a nitro group. So next we just
have to remember how to put a bromine
on a benzene ring, and of course it's a
bromination reaction. So you would need some
bromine and a catalyst, so something like iron bromide. So FeBr3 will work for that. All right, let's see if we can
figure out the next precursor here. So what could we do
to make this molecule? Well, once again, we
have two groups on here. We have a nitro group,
and we have an acyl group. So we could do a nitration
to put the nitro group on, and we could do a
Friedel-Crafts acylation to put this acyl
group on our ring. So the question is which
one of these comes first? And it turns out
that you can't really do a Friedel-Crafts alkylation
or acylation with a moderate or strongly deactivating
group already on your ring. And this nitro group here
is strongly deactivating, which means we can't put
the nitro group on first and then add our acyl group. The acyl group must come on
before the nitro group, which means in this step, we're going
to put on the nitro group. So the immediate precursor
to this molecule-- we just take off
our nitro group, and we're left with our
benzene ring and an acyl group attached to our
benzene ring like that. And so we need to do a
nitration, which requires, of course, concentrated
nitric acid and also concentrated
sulfuric acid like that. All right, now all we have
to do is go from benzene to this molecule. And we know how to
do that, of course. That's a Friedel-Crafts
acylation reaction. And so when we think about
what kind of acyl chloride we're going to use,
just count the number of carbons here,
so 1, and then 2. So we need a 2
carbon acyl chloride. So we're going to draw here a 2
carbon acyl chloride like that. And then we need a catalyst. Something like aluminum chloride
will work for our catalyst. So our synthesis is complete. We start with a
Friedel-Crafts acylation. And the acyl group
is a meta director, which would direct the nitro
group to the meta position. And then, finally, we
have two meta directors, which we now
brominate, which would direct the bromine to
the final position. And we are complete. Let's do another problem here. And, actually, it's
the exact same groups that we just saw in
the previous problem, but this target molecule
looks a little bit different. And so we're going to need
to do the reactions that we did in the previous synthesis
in a different order here. So once again, let's start
by analyzing the groups. So once again, we know that
this bromine is an ortho/para director because of the lone
pairs of electrons on it. We know the nitro group
is a meta director because of the plus 1 formal charge. And our acyl group
is a meta director because of the partial positive
charge on our carbonyl carbon, right here. So when we look at
those groups, and we think about which of those
reactions was done last, it makes sense that this
nitration was done last. And that's because
this nitro group is meta to our acyl group,
because our acyl group is a meta director, and our
bromine, more importantly, is an ortho/para director. And of course the nitro group
is ortho to the bromine. And so it makes sense the
last reaction was a nitration reaction. So, to draw the precursor
to this, all we do is take off that
nitro group, and we would have our benzene
ring, like this. And we would have a
bromine on our ring, and would already have our acyl
group on our ring, like that. So our last reaction was
a nitration reaction. So we need to add, once again,
concentrated nitric acid and concentrated sulfuric
acid for our nitration. So when we think about the
precursor to this molecule-- so once again, we have
an ortho/para director on our ring, and we have a
meta director on our ring. And we have our groups. Our bromine and
our acyl group are para to each other, which
means that the ortho/para director directed the acyl
group to the para position as the major product. And so we can think about doing
a Friedel-Crafts acylation reaction here. So that means that we're
taking off the acyl group. So we're left with bromobenzene
to start with over here, like that. So we have
bromobenzene, and we're doing a Friedel-Crafts
acylation. And, once again, we need 2
carbons on our acyl group. So let me just point
that out, 1 and 2. So we need a 2
carbon acyl chloride. So go ahead and put on a
2 carbon acyl chloride, like that. Once again, our
catalyst, something like aluminum
chloride, will work. And you might think
to yourself that I know that the halogen, the
bromine, is deactivating. So how can we do a
Friedel-Crafts acylation with a deactivating
group on there, even though it's an
ortho/para director? Well, remember, it's
only weakly deactivating. And so you can't do an
alkylation or acylation with a moderate or strongly
deactivating group. And so it turns out, since
this is weakly deactivating, you can still do this, and
you'll get the para product as your major product over here. So I'm sure you'd get a
little bit of ortho as well. All right, so now
all we have to do is go from benzene
to bromobenzene And, of course,
that's really simple. It's just a bromination
reaction again. So we have our bromine, and
then we have our catalyst, and then our
synthesis is complete. So for this time, we start out
with a bromination reaction to form bromobenzene. The bromine is an
ortho/para director. This is an ortho/para director. And so it's going to
put to this acyl group on our ring in the para position
as our major product, here. And then, of course,
we nitrate it, and we have an ortho/para
director and a meta director, which means the nitro group
will end up in this position. And we're done. So that's how to think about
the synthesis problem, so retro synthesis, working
backwards, thinking about target molecules. And we'll do two more in the
next video, which are maybe a little bit harder
than these two.