- [Narrator] How does an artist use light to help keep us out of the dark? (bright music) Light reveals the world around
us while shadow obscures it, but without contrast between the two, we wouldn't see shapes or forms at all. Artists use light in a variety of ways to tell the story, to create a mood, or even as the medium itself. Let's look at a few examples. This is the "Two Disciples
at the Tomb" painted in 1906 by American artist Henry Ossawa Tanner. Born in Philadelphia, he spent most of his career
in Paris, the City of Light, and developed a uniquely modern approach to religious subjects. In this painting, Tanner
represents the moment when two disciples of
Jesus Christ discover his body missing from his tomb. The scene has two kinds of light: a soft natural glow coming
from inside the cave and a supernatural light that
radiates from John himself. With yellow and white highlights, Tanner illuminated John's face and chest as well as outlined his profile, giving him a radiant glow
to suggest his faith. Peter who denied Christ is mostly composed of darker, earthy browns and peach tones. By using light to tell the story, Tanner creates something miraculous. 600 miles away in Germany,
Käthe Kollwitz created art that reflected her personal experiences of suffering and loss using
experimental etching techniques. Traditional etching
involves scratching lines into a coated metal plate. After it's treated in
an acid bath and inked, the etched lines appear as
dark areas on the print. Kollwitz' etching "Battlefield"
represents the aftermath of a 16th century peasant revolt. A woman shrouded in black
searches a field for her son. Her lantern light reveals
a single anguished face among many corpses. Kollwitz creates this ominous
scene without using color. Instead, she concentrates areas of etched lines to create darkness and leaves key sections
more sparsely inked. What appears as a flash of light is where Kollwitz smoothed the plate so ink wouldn't adhere to it. It's through this strategic
placement of light that Kollwitz exposes the
horrors of war and poverty. While it may have been complicated for Kollwitz to create
light with her etching, for Dan Flavin, making
light was the easy part. Living in New York City in the 1960s, Flavin created art from
industrially produced materials, the stuff of everyday America. "Monument" for V. Tatlin
is one of a series of works inspired by early 20th century Russian sculptor Vladimir Tatlin. Tatlin strived to combine artistry and engineering in his work,
sometimes on a massive scale. His design for this monumental structure celebrated the promise of the modern age. Flavin used fluorescent
lights to evoke the geometry and spirit of Tatlin's design, though, for him light wasn't
spiritual or emotional. He was more interested in working with the physical qualities of light. Flavin spent a lot of time
considering the arrangement of the fluorescent tubes and how that light would
interact with its surroundings. And because fluorescent
lights eventually burn out, Flavin always included
an instruction manual detailing replacement tube specifications for museums and galleries. By transforming the mundane
into the monumental, Flavin lit a path for
future artists to follow. From Tanner's depiction
of light as a holy symbol, to the moody shadows cast by Kollwitz, and Flavin's sculpting
of fluorescent tubes, our perception depends on
an artist's use of light. Next time you're in a museum, consider how light
influences your perception of other works of art. (bright music)