- Do you ever wish that you had a tail? You could swing your way to school, bake pies more efficiently, and carry an umbrella while
keeping your hands free. The funny thing is, you
did have a tail once, before you were born. Back then, you were an embryo. An embryo is an organism that
is in the earliest stages of development before
it is born or hatched. Early on in the growth of a human embryo, the embryo has a tail-like structure. As time goes on, the embryo grows, and eventually the cells that
made up that tail structure shift and form the tailbone, which makes up the bottom of the spine. By the time the embryo is eight weeks old, the tail is not visible at all. Humans are not the only species
to have tails as embryos. We share this trait with the embryos of
many other vertebrates, which are animals with a backbone, such as monkeys, mice,
turtles, and chickens. Scientists call features
such as embryo tails homologous features. Structurally similar
anatomical features that two species share that
indicate that the species share a common ancestor. Identifying homologous
features can help scientists figure out how different species
are related to each other and how they evolved. Studying embryos is a
helpful way for scientists to find similarities between species. Similarities that might not be visible once the animals are born and grow up. In general, embryos of
related species have more obvious homologous features at earlier stages of development, before the embryos anatomy
becomes highly specialized. During the stages of
an embryos development, the embryo goes through a
lot of physical changes. The embryo of an elephant
starts out weighing less than a gram and it eventually grows to its birth weight of
about 100 kilograms. Let's take a closer look
at the kinds of changes the elephant embryo goes
through as it develops. As an embryo grows, its
physical structures change. Some structures become visible, and others disappear. For example, towards the
beginning of development, an elephant embryo has structures called pharyngeal arches, or
gill arches, on its neck. As the embryo grows, the
pharyngeal arches change structure and help form the ears
and jaws of the elephant. And it turns out, all vertebrate embryos have pharyngeal arches
early in their development. In fish, these arches
develop into gill structures. In humans and other mammals,
these arches develop into ear and jaw structures, just
like they did in the elephant. Pharyngeal arches are homologous features, even though we can only
see this homologous feature early on in embryo development. Pharyngeal arches provide
evidence to scientists that all vertebrates
share a common ancestor. More distantly related
species tend to share fewer homologous features
during both embryo development and after birth. More closely related
species tend to share more homologous features during
both embryo development and after birth. So even though you don't have
a tail, as far as I know, studying homologous features in embryos, shows scientists that
humans are related to many tail-using creatures
because of evolution.