(tapping on table) (bell ringing) - In the last exercise,
you developed your sense of light and shadow
quality by paying attention to intensity, softness, and color. Now let's think about the various roles that light can play when lighting a scene. In photography and
filmmaking we define a light by how it is being used. And since those are common
terms in those industries, it's useful to know them. To see the different ways lights are used, let's break down the shot and look at the lights one at a time. Key, fill, bounce, rim, and kick. First, let's turn off
everything except this light. This is the key light, and it's the main shaping
light in the scene. By shaping, we mean it helps
things look dimensional. Let's return to our light
box and try this out. I'm going to swap out
my ball with an orange for this exercise and here's my light in a typical key light position. Now let's return to our scene
and turn on another light, the fill light. Here's what the scene looks
like with only the fill light. This light adds light into the
shadows and reduces contrast. One example of a fill light is a light that we get from the sky. It's usually a softer light, and so it doesn't have
strong shaping and shadows the way a key light does. Let's return to our light
box again and try this out. Here's what it looks like if I add a fill light to the scene. And here is just the fill light by itself. (light switch clicking off) Now let's return to our virtual example and turn on a new light, the bounce light. This light bounces off of surfaces and gets cast back into the scene. This happens naturally,
like when light bounces off of a wall, a table,
the floor, or even a shirt. Since light automatically
bounces around a scene we sometimes want to exaggerate it or simply add extra light to the subject. The way to do this is
by bouncing the light off a white card that
is off camera like this. Another light that we sometimes
use is called a rim light. Rim lights are used to
help carve something out from the background by outlining
it with a rim of light. This is done by pointing
the light into the camera from behind the subject. To create a rim light on the orange, I'll place my light over here like this. Finally, we can also create
what's called a kick light. Here's our scene with a kick light only. Like the rim light, the
kick light can be used to help separate the
subject from the background. This light, however, is
brought around a little more to the side of the character and rather than being an outline, gives extra shaping to the subject. To create a kick light on the orange I'll move my light over
to the side like this. Sometimes, but not always,
a kick light is coming from something in the
set, such as a window or the sun behind the subject. OK, those are the main roles
that we are going to cover in this lesson. Let's see all these
lights turned on together. Key, fill, bounce, rim, and kick. In the next exercise, you'll have a chance to explore these basic
ideas with something that we ask many people at Pixar
to try, lighting an orange. Good luck.