- [Instructor] Civic engagement
is defined as the actions of local leaders and residents
to improve their community and the lives of their community members. It's important to think about
these terms pretty broadly. We tend to think about community as a word that refers specifically
to the physical location where you live. But you might belong to
several different communities at once, your city or town, yes. But also your school or a
club sport or online gaming or social media networks
or an identity group. Anytime you join together with others with a common interest,
you're in a community. And when you work to
promote the quality of life in a community, that's civic engagement. Civic engagement also
doesn't only mean engaging with politics and government. That's one way of acting to
affect change in a community. And remember that we define
politics as a process by which people reach collective decisions despite potentially diverging opinions that are generally regarded
as binding on the group and enforced as common policy. But civic engagement also
includes a whole spectrum of ways that people participate in self-governance including interacting with government, volunteering in and
serving their communities, and organizing for social,
political, and economic causes. When someone works to make a
difference in their community and develops the combination
of knowledge, skills, values, and motivation in order
to make a difference, they're practicing civic engagement. So what does civic engagement look like? It could be many things. Here are a few examples. Organizing a voter registration drive, hosting a town meeting,
or organizing a protest. It could also be raising
awareness about community issues through a blog or website, helping others get the skills or resources that they need to succeed, or seeing a need in your
community and filling it. I was on a hike last weekend
and saw a ranger station that was built by an Eagle Scout. That's a perfect example
of civic engagement, Helping elementary school
students build reading skills so that they can become strong
citizens is a good example. So is volunteering to help
rebuild after a hurricane or making sure that a
homeowner who's in a wheelchair has a ramp to get in and out of her house. So that's a very brief
overview of civic engagement. Can you think of any other examples? What does a person do differently when they're practicing civic engagement versus when they're not? What forms of civic engagement do you see in the communities you belong to?