Let's do an example of how a
housing bubble can lead to wealth destruction. And I really just want to hit
the point home that once wealth is destroyed, all
legislation can do is redistribute who takes
the losses. That you can't create wealth,
all of a sudden, out of legislation. You can maybe create incentives
for investment et cetera, et cetera, but
we'll talk about that in a future video. So let's say, in year one, I
have a neighborhood and Toll Brothers goes out and builds a
new development and they build five houses. Let me draw those five houses. House one, house two,
house three, house four, and house five. And let's say, that this was
a normal home buying environment. This could have been 1995. Let's just say, for the sake
of argument, this is 1995. Although, I want this to be an
abstract example, so we could call that year one. But in 1995, these people
find five new families that go buy the house. They pay $100,000 each,
for the houses. These were conforming loans,
there wasn't this whole CDO and mortgage-backed
security market. So essentially, these people
have to put 20% down, and they had good credit scores, and all
the rest. So immediately, they have $20,000 equity
and an $80,000 loan. It's my code, E for equity. Now, we have this whole
securitization, lending becomes a lot easier, becomes
easier and easier every year because housing prices go up,
so people stop taking risk into consideration. And let's say, we get
to the year 2005. This could be an abstract
example, it could be year two. In 2005, all of a sudden
everyone is getting access to funding. The people who have houses
actually don't want to sell the houses because they're
convinced that their housing prices are going up so fast,
that it's only a matter of time before they're millionaires
just with the housing wealth, and then they
could maybe retire off of it. But there's so much funding
and anyone can get a loan. And let's say, that these first
homeowners, maybe they have to move, or maybe they just
want to move to a cheaper location, or maybe their kids
have gone to college, so they just want to downsize. They decide to sell
their house. And because there's so much
demand out there, anyone can get a loan, frankly, the person
who's going to be able to give the highest bid on the
house, is a person, to some degree, who's most reckless
or most prudent. And anyway, I won't
go into that. But let's say, they pay $1
million for the house. They have no money down, $1
million loan, subprime, negative amortization, they
had no credit rating, et cetera, et cetera. They pay $1 million. Now, that was the purchase
price of the house. And we could just say, that
they have zero equity. And of course, this
guy's great now. He probably did build equity
over that ten years from 1995 to 2005, but even if he didn't,
even if all he did was pay the interest on
this $80,000 loan. This guy, he had $20,000, now
he gets $1,000,000, pays off the $80,000, so he essentially,
gets $920,000 plus the $20,000 had before. So he moves to Costa Rica
with $940,000 and lives like a king. Although, I've heard Costa Rica has also become expensive. But anyway, what happens now
in the neighborhood? These people didn't
sell their houses. They didn't find some subprime
individual that was willing to bid up the house. Nothing happened, no money
changes hands, but all of a sudden, these people say, well
you know what, our houses are just as nice as this first
house that sold. Maybe it's even better. So our houses are also
worth $1 million. So we all have this kind of you
could say, paper wealth here of $1 million. Just from one transaction. And actually, this is a five
house neighborhood, this could happen in a 500 house
neighborhood. You just to find one person to
overpay for a house and then everyone in the neighborhood,
all of a sudden, feels at their house is worth
that much. And just out of thin air, just
by one person getting cheap credit and overpaying for
something, everyone in the neighborhood thinks that they
just got $900,000 of wealth, or at least in this example. You never see a nine-fold
increase in property prices but it wasn't crazy to see a
two-fold increase in a year. Well, we have seen nine-fold
increases over ten years, it's the example here, it's actually
not that crazy. Anyway, that's all of their
notional wealth. But all these people
don't want to sell. One, they like their house,
their kids are still there. And they say, wow, in ten
years my house went from $100,000 to $1 million and in
another ten years, my house is going to go from $1 million
to $10 million. Why would I sell it; I can then
retire off the house. They don't think, who could
buy a $10 million house in ten years. The only people who could-- well
anyway, I'll do another video on that, I just don't
want to run out of time. But they can still
monetize this. They could say, well when I go
to my financial planner, they said, oh, it's so inefficient
for you to have all of that equity sitting in your house. How much equity do they have? They had $20,000 before and even
if they didn't build any equity while they paid their
mortgage, they now have another $900,000 of equity. So these people, their financial
planner, and their siblings, and their friends at
work say, oh, your balance sheet is so inefficient, why
don't you take some of that equity and invest it
or put it to work. So they say, that's
a good idea. I'll go get a home
equity loan. So let's say, this person
goes to a bank. A bank says, OK, sure, I'll
give you a $500,000 home equity loan, and in exchange,
get 8% interest on that loan. So this is the bank. And the bank thinks it
got a great deal. Because this $500,000 loan
is not an unsecured loan. It's not as if this person
can't pay, they just file bankruptcy and there's
nothing that the bank can get ahold of. This home equity loan is
secured by the house. So the bank says, well if this
person doesn't pay that $500,000 loan, if they default,
for whatever reason, I get their house. And their house is
worth $1 million. And why do I think
it's $1 million? Because a house in the
neighborhood sold for $1 million and frankly, that's how,
unfortunately, housing was assessed. People would just say, oh,
another house in this neighborhood sold for $1
million, this one must be worth $1 million because it's a
very similar or maybe even a better house. So this banker thinks they
have a great deal. This is better than
buying treasuries. I'm getting 8%, maybe
treasuries are giving me 3% or 4%. And if they default on it, I
actually get an asset that's probably worth more than the
loan amount, and I can auction that off and easily get
my $500,000 back. So the risk managers within
the bank think they have a great deal. And they probably sliced and
diced these things and sold it to other people and
got it rated as triple-A and all of that. But what happens next? Well let's say, 2005, in our
imaginary universe was the peak of the credit cycle. That was the year that credit
was the loosest. And as soon as some of these people who had
no jobs and got these $1 million loans, they probably
couldn't even pay the mortgage on their loan, not to speak of
continuing it, or even pay the low rate on the original
teaser loan. So maybe, they start to default,
credit starts getting tighter, and let's say, this guy
actually gets foreclosed. And so he gives the house
back to the bank. The bank auctions it off and
let's say, when the bank auctions it off, it only gets
$300,000 for the house. And in the meantime, what did
all of these people do with the $500,000 that they had? Well their intention was to take
these home equity loans and put that money to work,
invest it in some way. And they say, well what's a
better investment than doing home improvements? Because we all know a house
is the best investment. So unfortunately, a lot of
that $500,000 it gets quote-unquote invested in
granite countertops, two more bathrooms per house, hardwood
floors, and you can imagine. They wanted to treat themselves
too, so they did a little vacation. So it was invested quote-unquote
in their house. Because they said, oh well, this
will increase the value of my house. And oh, as a side benefit,
I will really look good, relative to the neighbors
and live it up. I can live beyond, essentially,
what my income would predict. And I've done some videos on
investment versus consumption, but I'd argue that
this wasn't real investment, that $500,000. That this was consumption
because it's not making the world more productive in any
way; it's not increasing the total economic pie for the
world, so it's not investment. It may be an investment if it
somehow makes your asset more emotionally appealing to
some greater fool to pay more for it. You didn't build a factory or
you didn't invent some new technology that will make all of
us richer, you just poured some money into something that's
going to make your lifestyle a little bit better,
and maybe the next person who buys your house. But anyway, this house
got foreclosed upon. It gets auctioned off
for $300,000, maybe this is the year 2006. Now, all of a sudden, all of
these people, probably all of whom who took these home equity
loans, let's say all of them did it. They all say, gee, I'm paying
a $500,000 loan. Actually, I'm paying $500,000
plus my original $80,000 loan, so, I have $580,000 of
debt on an asset that just sold for $300,000. So what do you think they're
going to do? And I just realized I'm out of
time, so I will continue this in the next video.