- [Lecturer] What we're gonna
talk about in this video is how political and cultural events might have an influence on
someone's political ideology. So let's make this a little bit concrete and political scientists
will sometimes have various classifications
for these types of effects. So for example, there is
something known as generational effects, and these would
be events that affect an entire generation, that
could influence how an entire generation thinks about their
position on different issues. An example of that might
be if you were to grow up or if you were an adult
during the Great Depression in the 1930s, well that might
affect you in many, many different ways. You would start to maybe be
a little bit conservative with your own personal finances
realizing that a rainy day might come one day. Many people who grew up
during the Great Depression viewed FDR, Franklin
Roosevelt, as a major factor in taking the country out
of the Great Depression. Other folks might disagree
with that position. But if you were one of those
folks who believed that FDR through the expansion of
government helped bring the country out of the Great
Depression, and if you believe that FDR was a good leader
for the United States during World War Two, well
then, you might lean Democrat. You might lean Democrat
the rest of your life. And it indeed seems to be
the case that many people who grew during the Great
Depression did indeed lean Democrat because
of their belief that FDR was good for the country. Similarly, if you grew
up during the Cold War or if you were an adult during
the Cold War you had this thing hanging over you
in the 60s, 70s, and 80s of what would a nuclear war
with the Soviet Union look like? And so many of those folks
might look at someone like a Ronald Reagan, who
many people would argue helped bring about the
end of the Cold War. And so many of these folks
who did view Ronald Reagan as a major actor there
might lean Republican. Or even if they don't lean Republican they might say, hey, the
type of strong muscular military presence with
diplomacy that Ronald Reagan did well, that's a type of point
of view that I support. Now these two things were
big, macro events that would have happened over many,
many years, if not decades. But there could also be particular events and sometimes particular political events that might influence
someone's political ideology. So let me write this
down, political events. And so an example of that
might be the Watergate Scandal under Richard Nixon. Many of the people who were
adults then and understood what was going on, it
might have led to a general distrust in government. It might have led to a more
of a belief that people in high office do things
without telling us. Once again, these are not,
it's not gonna be everyone who lived in that time
period, but it might make some folks lean one direction or another. Now everything I've talked
about has been in the realm of politics, but there is
also a lot that happens in culture that could
affect your ideology. If you see more of a certain
point of view on television for example or in movies,
that might make you more sympathetic to that point of view. You also have effects over
the course of your life that affect your ideology. And so these are often
known as lifecycle effects. Lifecycle effects. And this is the idea that
as you go from being young to getting older, just
different things in your life might make you lean in
one direction or another. And these are going to
be broad generalizations but let's say you are
young, you are in college, you have a lot of student
debt, you might lean maybe toward a more progressive
candidate or have liberal leanings if a candidate
says hey, the government's going to try to reduce
student debt or provide more support for young students. But then as you get older and
maybe you become a homeowner maybe you have more wealth,
you have a higher income, you might say, hey, these
taxes really hurt more than I suspected and they're
quite large, or maybe you're starting a business or you're
saying, hey, these regulations really aren't as good as an
idea as I thought they were when I was young, well then
maybe you might, and I'd stress might, you might start
leaning more conservative. So I'll leave you there. The big picture is is that
your political ideology isn't just driven by your
genetics or your family and we've talked about
these in other videos, or where you grew up. So not just driven by geography,
it's driven by a whole set of things, many of the
things that might happen to you individually, let's
say you had a bad incident with crime that might
make you tougher on crime. Or maybe you were on the
other side, you got arrested for something you didn't
do, that might change your point of view, and things
that happen on a bigger scale, things that might happen
to your entire generation.