[music] We're looking at the Röttgen Pietà, a devastating image
that dates from the early 14th century. So this is the late Gothic period, the latter part of the Middle Ages. -Here we see a great example
of the spirituality, the kind of mysticism
that emerges in the later Middle Ages, and I think we really see that
reflected here in this gruesomeness. It's a very emotional image. Here we have Mary,
the mother of God, holding her dead son on her lap and so palpably dead, so gruesomely,
so violent a death, those gaping wounds
in his hands and his feet, the gaping wound in his side,
that three-dimensional blood that not only drips out,
but explodes out of the body. Even the sharpness
of the crown of thorns, we can feel those thorns
that not only emerge out toward us but also went into Christ's head, and we see the painted blood
dripping down his face. -So we call this the Pietà. If we're thinking of the narrative
of The Passion of Christ, This is the lamentation. This is when Mary laments
the death of her dead son. The lamentation
from Giotto's Arena Chapel is something that we often look at
and refer to for Italian art of the similar period. -But this has no other figures around it. We're just confronted
with Mary and Christ. -And so the storytelling element,
that narrative element is diminished here,
and the artist is asking us to focus on this particular interaction
between Mary and her dead son, but something that I think
is very interesting is Mary's response. When I look at Mary here, I see that she's got a furrowed brow. I see anger in that face.
I see confusion. And normally
when we see representations of Mary in this late Gothic period,
Mary is the Queen of Heaven. She's this divine or semi-divine figure who has this foreknowledge
that Christ's death is going to be temporary, but when I look at Mary's face here, I don't see any of that foreknowledge. -There's a sense of
how did the world go so awry that God made flesh, was crucified. What you're describing there
emphasizes Mary's humanity, and earlier medieval representations show them
as more distant and divine figures. This is a reflection
of some changing ideas at the end of the Middle Ages. We would associate this
with maybe Saint Francis of Assisi and with a few other medieval saints who are interested in mysticism. They're interested
in feeling their religion, and so they spend a lot of time
contemplating the crucifixion and the passion to emotionally connect to those things to enhance their religious belief, and this statue and other pietàs like it are really an outgrowth
of this mystical idea, this idea that you can connect with God on a very emotional level. By stripping away
those narrative elements, we're left with this very stark image. We're left with this concentration
of emotion. It is interesting to compare this
to Giotto's Madonna and Child from about the same period where we have an image of Mary
as the Queen of Heaven, a figure who does not feel
human emotions. She's above that.
She's transcended that. Here, this emerging interest that we see in the Trecento,
in the 1300s, in spiritual figures
who are more like us, and therefore we have empathy with them. We can see traces of color here. We see some of the red from the blood. It looks like green paint
on the drapery. But we have to imagine back
to these colors being much more vivid. -We also see some damage in Mary's head. We see some wormholes. This is a wooden sculpture, and we don't have a tremendous amount
of wooden sculpture that survives from the Middle Ages, so this is a really special example
because it retains its paint. But the paint is something that helps to bring this sculpture alive, and the sense of the image becoming alive is important
to this mystical sense of visions in the later Middle Ages
where religious images were there to bring the moment alive
in the mind of the viewer, and all of that blood
that we see dripping from the crown of thorns
over Christ's face that's really meant
to intensify this sense that as you physically stand
in front of the statue, it's as though you're seeing back
through time to this event and then feeling the emotions. -I also think about this on an altar surrounded by a painted altarpiece by other painted sculptures by perhaps frescoes on the ceilings
or walls of the church by priests wearing beautiful
liturgical vestments. We have to imagine this within a visually rich,
ecclesiastical environment and also imagine the sounds
of the church, of prayers being said,
of mass being said, and when we imagine
that whole environment, it's easier to imagine that kind of visionary experience
taking place. -When I think of this
in terms of an original location, a lot of these were present
in German nunneries, I try to imagine
the kind of emotional journey that the viewer would experience in spending time with this image, kind of the initial shock and horror through to maybe feelings of empathy and maybe even eventually feeling
God suffered so badly he understands what I suffer. [music]