- [Narrator] Okay so the
way a DVD player works is there's a spinning disc
right here. That's our DVD. And so it spins around and
there is underneath of it there is a motor, and that motor spins causing the disc to spin.
And then there is a lens and a reflector, and a laser
diode. And the laser diode shines the light on the reflector,
it goes through the lens focuses on the DVD, and
this whole part right here moves out as the DVD
spins. And what happens is the DVD reflects the light back down here and there is a light
collector. So the light collector says oh, okay.
This is a pit or a bump and it sends that
information via pulses of electricity back to the micro processor. So now we're gonna look
at the laser assembly. It's comprised of a number of
parts. It has a laser diode. It has a series of
reflectors. It has a lens. It has a laser or a
light sensor. And it has an adjustment mechanism. So
the first thing I'm gonna do is take this covering off.
I had already loosened it to make it a little easier to get off. And you can see right here there are two neodymium magnets. I
think they're neodymium because they're very, very
strong for their size. And that means it's a rare earth magnet and they tend to be very, very
powerful permanent magnets. And then, right here you can see there are two different coils out of copper. And there are two coils
out of copper there. And the lens is mounted
on these wires in between and it can shift and move.
So I suspect that that mechanism allows for fine
tuning adjustments of the lens. All right. So let's go ahead
and see if we can take apart this DVD player. So we'll
pop this prism off here. So this sensor collects
the reflected light and sends that information
back. Now let's see if we can there we go. And there's the laser diode. So that's the little guy
that shines the light, the laser light that gets
read, that hits the disc and gets reflected and
read by this sensor.