This is our L298
compact motor driver. We're going to use it
to control the motors on our little Bit-zee bot. We're going to control those
hairdryer motor's speed and direction using this guy. It's going to allow us to
switch the high voltage we need for the motor and
the high current with our low voltage
and low current from our micro-controller,
which is called the Arduino. So the Arduino here has a
bunch of different pinouts. We can use those to connect
to the motor controller and control the motor. It also has a USB
cord that we can plug in our USB socket we
can plug into our computer so we can program it to tell
the motor controller what to do. So the motor we're going
to use is this guy. It's basically a
hairdryer motor. And it's going to be used as
our wheels on the Bit-zee bot. And so it'll allow us
to drive around and do all kinds of things. And the motor controller allows
us to control two of these. So that's one of the
reasons we selected it. We also chose it
because it was a kit. So to get started, we
need to use rosin-core. We're using a
rosin-core 60/40 solder. And the rosin core allows it
to stick a little bit better. So the first thing
we're going to do is select our resistors
for our L298 chip. And the resistors
are going to be-- those first resistor
are 47k ohm resistors. And you can tell they're 47k
ohm because like all resistors they have stripes on them that
indicate what their resistance level is. So these particular ones
are yellow, purple, orange, and gold. And so we put the resistors
in and we've bent their leads so that the resistors stay
snug against the board. And we're going to
heat the solder pad that the resistor's
lead goes through. So this takes a little
while to get the hang of it, but we're just heating
the soldering pads that the lead is going through
and trying to make sure that they get just
enough solder to wick all the way around the lead and
make a clean connection. Sometimes it's tough to get
the point of the soldering iron just right so that you can
get the heat on the pad. But we'll get it there. And it's important to keep
the tip of the soldering iron clean. So now we're inspecting
the connections to make sure that they are solid
and that our components are where they should
be on the board. And you can see that the
solder has flowed through and there's a good connection
on each of the resistors. So we're going to go ahead
and trim off those leads. We'll use a nipper pliers. And you want to trim them
as close to the board as you possibly can. You still want to,
of course, leave the solder connection intact. All right, so now we're going to
install our next two resistors. And we'll do these
little bit more quickly because you've already seen
how we connect resistors. These resistors are 2.2k ohm
resistors and they are used to protect our indicator LEDs. You can see them in the
top of the screen there, the green and the red ones. And these are indicated. You can tell they're 2.2k
because they're red, red, red, and gold. And so we just splayed
the leads of the resistors there so we could
hold them in place. And then, of course,
we soldered them down. And those resistors are put
in place vertically instead of horizontally because
there's not as much space. All right, so now we're going
to install our flyback diodes. These diodes are going
to protect our circuit from a current that could
come back from the motors. These diodes are the
same types of diodes that you would use in,
say, a bridge rectifier. It's important that they're
installed in a particular way. So you can see there's a little
square on the right-hand side of the diode marking. And that square shows
that you should line up the silver stripe on the
diode with that square. So the silver stripes
should be closest to the outside of the board. And that means that the diodes
are in the correct location. And as we know, diodes
function like valves and they only allow
the electricity to flow in one direction. So it is important that they're
installed in the correct way. You can see how that diode's
not sitting quite flat, so I'm going to take
my pliers and push it in the rest of the way. It's important that the
components on the board sit flush. So then we'll just
bend the leads out like we did with
the other components and make sure they're all
lined up appropriately. And it's important, again,
to keep the leads away from each other. You don't want
them to be touching when you solder them down. And so we're just verifying
that the leads are there and that the diodes are
flush against the board. And they are. And so we'll solder
them in place and then add the
other six diodes that are required for
protecting our board. So we've got those in place
and they're all soldered down. And we soldered
each of the pads. And so now we're just going
to trim off the leads. And again, you want to
make sure that the solder pads don't connect
to each other. They should stay separate. Anyway, we're verifying now that
the solder joints look pretty good and the components are
in the right orientation. And they are. So you can see how
they're connected and how the solder has flowed
around all of the leads and that none of the
solder joints are touching. OK, so now we're going to
install a filtering capacitor. This is a high-frequency
filtering capacitor. It's 0.1 microfarads. And it's bipolar,
which means it can be installed either direction. It's not like the diodes
that care which way they go. And so we're going to bend
the leads out here on this, and again we'll just heat up
those solder pads and solder right to the pads. Now the pads are
close on that one, so you got to be careful
not to use too much solder. And we'll trim the leads off. So now we are going to install
our light-emitting diodes. These light-emitting
diodes are going to allow us to see what
direction the motor is turning and what direction the
current is flowing. All right, so these indicator
diodes are very important. It's very important that they're
installed in the correct way. So they have a long
lead and a short lead. And this short lead needs
to go towards the square pad or through the square pad. And there's also a flat side
on the diode that will line up with a flat side on
the opposite diode. And that's how you know
that you have the diodes in in the correct orientation. And they will also sit
completely flat on the board, as you can see right there,
when they're in correctly. So just make sure those
two short leads are facing one another and that they go
through the square pads that are in the center. So again, we're going
to bend those leads out and that just holds
the diodes flat while we solder them in place. OK, now that we've
got the diodes in, we're going to connect our
interface socket strips. These basically allow us
to easily connect wires from our Arduino to
the motor controller. And they allow a little place
for us to plug the wire in. So we're going to
tape these down because they're not
easy to hold in place. Their leads aren't
long enough to bend. And then we're going to
set them on the pliers to hold them in place, and then
we'll just solder them down. So now the next step is to
connect our terminal blocks. So the terminal
blocks will allow us to connect our motors right
to the L298 controller board and will also provide
us a place to get power from the board to
power other components. So we've got a place to do that. So here's where we
wire our battery. That's our three-terminal block. And then our motors are wired
on the two-terminal blocks. And again, we're
taping those down just to make sure they sit flush,
because they have a tendency to sort of fall out
of the board when you're soldering them in place. Here's an electrolytic
capacitor. So now we're going to
install our 22 microfarad 50-volt capacitor. This is an
electrolytic capacitor. The round pad needs
to be connected with the positive, which is
the longer capacitor lead. It is polarized. And now we have our
5-volt regulator. This is going to allow us to
get five volts from the board. And we just pushed
it through and we're soldering the pads down. And that 5-volt
regulator will allow us to use some of the power from
the board of power our Arduino. And so now we've
got our L298 chip, which is the logic
chip on the board. And the L298 chip interprets
the signals from the Arduino and allows the power
to flow to the motors. And so the L298 chip is
really the heart and soul of the motor controller. So it can only go
in in one direction. And when you put
the L298 chip in, you want to make sure
all the leads stick through an even amount. And so what I like to
do is put something under the other side of
the motor controller just to make sure that the pins
are all coming through evenly. And so it also makes it a
little easier to solder to. And again, we're just soldering
right to the solder pads, heating the solder pads
and connecting everything. All right, so we're
double checking to make sure there are no
shorts and that all the solder connections look
solid and are good. And it looks like they are. So that's a good sign. And you can see there are no
places where the solder has gone and connected across. And then you can see the top
of the board all the components are sitting flush and they're
in their correct locations. And that's pretty much it. That's our L298 motor
controller that we're going to use to drive the
motors on our Bit-zee bot.