If oxides have a lot of
ring or angle strain, this makes them very reactive
towards ring opening. So in this video, we'll look
at the ring opening reactions of epoxides using
strong nucleophiles. So in the first step, we
add a strong nucleophile to our epoxide. And in the second step,
we add a proton source. And the nucleophile is going
to end up opening the ring and adding, in an anti fashion,
to the OH that is created here. And so in terms
of regiochemistry, that nucleophile adds to
the substituted carbon. So it's going to add to
this carbon right here. If we go back and look at
our epoxide on the left, that's this carbon. And this carbon is attached
to two other carbons, so it would be classified
as a secondary carbon, whereas the carbon on the
right is attached to three other carbons-- and so
that's a tertiary carbon. So the mechanism
for this reaction is an SN2 type
mechanism, which means that our strong
nucleophile is going to attack the least sterically
hindered carbon, which is the one on the left,
since a hydrogen takes up less space than some bulky R
group over here on the right. And so that's the
regiochemistry here. The stereochemistry
is an anti opening of the ring for an anti
addition of the nucleophile. And this will affect
possible chirality centers, as we'll see in later examples. Let's look at some examples
of strong nucleophiles. So for your strong
nucleophile, you could use an alkoxide anion-- so
something like this over here. You could use a
Grignard reagent, which we know are
sources of carbanions. So we could have a negatively
charged carbon like this. And you didn't have to
write your Grignard reagent like this. You could have
written it like RMgBr. Hydride itself is not
a strong nucleophile, but if hydride is coming from
something like lithium aluminum hydride, it functions
like a strong nucleophile. So we could go ahead and
show that hydride is really coming from lithium
aluminum hydride. So if we go ahead and
draw this in here, aluminum is going to have
a negative 1 formal charge. And then lithium would have
a plus 1 formal charge, like that. So lithium aluminum hydride is a
source of a strong nucleophile. It's just that the
hydride anion on its own, we've already talked about,
is not the best nucleophile. And then, of course,
you could have something like hydrogen sulfide anion
or the hydrosulfide anion right here, which also functions
as a strong nucleophile. Let's take a look
at the mechanism to form our alcohols here. So we're going to, once
again, start with our epoxide. And I'll use the
same epoxide that we had before, meaning there's
going to be an R prime here and R double prime going away
from us, hydrogen coming out at us, and an R group going
away from us, like that. So when I think about
electronegativity differences, I know that the oxygen
is more electronegative than this carbon, for example. So the oxygen is going to pull
the electrons, and the bonds between the oxygen and that
carbon, closer to the oxygen, giving it a partial
negative charge. So pulling some electron
density away from this carbon will give this carbon down here
a partially positive charge. And so that carbon is going to
function as our electrophile. So when the nucleophile
comes along, it will have a lone pair of
electrons and a negative 1 formal charge. It has two options. It could attack the
carbon on the left or it could attack the
carbon on the right. And since it is a strong
nucleophile, which precedes via an
SN2 type mechanism, it's going to attack
the carbon on the left. So once again, the
carbon on the left is the least
sterically hindered. That hydrogen is not
very big compared to some alkyl group
over here on the right. So the nucleophile is going
to attack the electrophile, like that. And when that
happens, it's going to kick these two electrons
in here off onto your oxygen. So we can go ahead
and draw the product of that nucleophilic attack. So now, we broke our
epoxide ring there, and we have an extra lone pair
of electrons on that oxygen, giving that oxygen a
negative 1 formal charge. These R groups on the carbon
on the right haven't changed. So they are still
there, like that. We've now added our
nucleophile, like that. And that's going to
push the hydrogen up relative to the plane. And then we have an R
group over here, like that. So the nucleophile has
to attack from below, because the oxygen is on
top and the nucleophile is going to attack the least
sterically hindered carbon. This ends up putting your
nucleophile and your oxygen anti to each other. And in the second step, we
can add a proton source-- so something like water. And we're going to get an
acid-base reaction, where alkoxide is going to take a
proton from water, which kicks these electrons in here
off onto the oxygen. And that will form our final
product, with an alcohol. So I'm going to have
an alcohol right here. And once again, my R
groups are still there. So I have an R prime
and R double prime. Our nucleophile is added, and
our hydrogen is pushed up, and our R group is
still back here. So that is the mechanism
for the SN2 type reaction. Let's do a problem which
involves some stereochemistry, so we can see how the
mechanism will determine the stereochemistry
of the products here. So I'm going to start out
and put my epoxide coming out at me in space, like that. And then at this
top carbon here, I'm going to have a methyl group
going away from me in space. So that's my reactant. And I'm going to
use sodium ethoxide. So I'll go ahead and draw
sodium ethoxide here. And we're going to use
ethanol as the solvent. So we have ethanol here
as our solvent, like that. So if we look at
this epoxide, it's a little bit hard to
see the stereochemistry. So let's go ahead and
redraw this molecule and we'll look at it from a
different vantage point here. So if I look at that epoxide
from a different vantage point, I'm looking at it from
above and down a little bit. And that would put my
epoxide going up, like that. And then it was this
carbon right here that's going to have the
methyl group going down relative to the
plane of the ring. And then this carbon over here
on the left has a hydrogen. So my first step would be to
identify my nucleophile, which, of course, is the
ethoxide anion. So I can go ahead and draw
my ethoxide anion in here. And next, I need to
think about where that nucleophile will attack. So I know that this
top oxygen here, being more electronegative
than the carbons, is going to have a
partial negative charge. And so I have two options. I could be the carbon the left. I could be the
carbon on the right. And if I think about
the fact that this is a strong nucleophile
SN2 type mechanism, it's going to attack the less
sterically hindered carbon, which, of course, is the
carbon on the left, which is going to have a
partial positive charge. And so we're going to
get nucleophilic attack. My nucleophile is going to
attack this carbon right here, which would kick these electrons
in here off onto the oxygen. So I can go ahead and
draw the product of that. So I have my ring, like that. And I opened up
the epoxide ring, so now this bond
is to an oxygen, and it has three lone
pairs of electrons, like that, which give it a
negative 1 formal charge. There's still a methyl group
going down at this carbon. And I've added my
nucleophile to this carbon. So I can go ahead and draw
my oxygen and then an ethyl, like that. And then I pushed
up the hydrogen. So when this reaction
occurred, the hydrogen that was down relative to
the plane of the ring, got pushed up. So now there's a hydrogen
up at that carbon. And in my final step, I'm going
to protonate the alkoxide. So a lone pair of electrons
will pick up a proton from ethanol, which kicks
these electrons off onto here. And I form my alcohol
as my product. So when I'm drawing my product
over here, now I have an OH and I still have a
methyl group going down. And over here, I have an
oxygen and an ethyl, like that. So if I wanted to draw
my product as a two dimensional dot structure,
I could look this way. I could look down on it,
like that, and just go ahead and draw what I see
when I'm looking down. So I can draw my ring. So here is my ring. And if I look at this
carbon right here, there's an OH coming out at me. So I can represent the OH coming
out at me with a wedge right here. And there's a methyl group going
away from me at that carbon. So this methyl group
is going away from me. So I can go ahead and put in
a dash for that methyl group. And when I look at
the other carbon here, I have an O and an ethyl
going away from me. So this guy would be a dash
going away from me, like that. So that, of course, is this
portion of the molecule. So that's my product. When I look at what happened
to the stereochemistry-- let's first start with
this top carbon right here-- this top carbon had
a methyl group going away and an oxygen coming out
at you at that carbon. And if we look over here, that's
the same thing that we have. We have a methyl group
going away from us, and then an oxygen coming
out at us, like that. So it's the same absolute
configuration at that carbon. If we look at the other carbon--
if we look at this carbon down here-- on the left, we
have an oxygen coming out at us in space. And on the right, at this
carbon now, the oxygen is going away from us in space. So we actually see
inversion of configuration. So right here, we have
inversion of configuration in terms of the stereochemistry. We went from a wedge to a dash. And that's, of course,
due to the mechanism. We had a nucleophilic attack
at a chirality center. And so we observe
inversion of configuration at that chirality center. Let's do one more example-- of
a strong nucleophile attacking an epoxide. And so this time, let's
use a Grignard reagent. So I'm going to start with
phenylmagnesium bromide. So we've already made
phenylmagnesium bromide as our Grignard reagent. And in the first
step, we're going to add ethylene oxide,
the simplest epoxide. In our second step, we're going
to add hydronium-- so H3O plus. And that'll be our
source of protons. But that has to be
in a second step. You can't add that
at the same time. Because there would be
an acid-base reaction from your Grignard reagent
with your hydronium ions. So if I'm looking at
phenylmagnesium bromide, I could draw it like
that, or I could redraw it to identify
my carbanion. So if I think about
what's going to happen, the electrons in the
bond between this carbon and magnesium in
here, carbon is more electronegative than magnesium. So you could think about
those two electrons as being on that
carbon, like this, which would give that carbon
a negative 1 formal charge. And so now we have
a carbanion and then we have MgBr plus, like that. And that's going to
be the nucleophile. When we have our ethylene
oxide that comes along-- so same idea-- oxygen is
more electronegative, so partial negative on the
oxygen, and a partial positive on the carbons that
are symmetrical. So when I think about
nucleophilic attack, these electrons in blue are
going to be my nucleophile. They're going to
attack my electrophile, kicking these electrons off. So when I draw the product
of the nucleophilic attack, I have my ring here. And now, I'm going to end
up with an alkoxide that looks like this. So let me go ahead and
highlight the electrons in blue. The electrons in blue formed a
new bond, a carbon-carbon bond right here. So the electrons in blue formed
a new carbon-carbon bond, which is why organometallics
are so useful. You can form these
carbon-carbon bonds here. And then I could see that
the two carbons over here on the right, this
carbon and this carbon, those are the ones that
came from my ethylene oxide, like that. So in my last step, it's
an acid-base reaction. And this alkoxide
is going to pick up a proton from H3O plus
in the second step. So a lone pair of electrons
picks up a proton, kicks these electrons
off, and I can go ahead and draw the product. So once again, here's my ring. And I now protonated my
alkoxide to form an alcohol. And the name of this alcohol--
so if I think about this as being carbon 1 and
this as being carbon 2, I have a phenyl group coming off
of ethanol-- so 2-phenylethanol would be the name of the
product that's formed. And 2-phenyl ethanol is famous
for being a component of rose oil. So this molecule smells
a lot like roses, and it's used in the
perfume industry. So this is one way to
make it 2-phenylethanol. There are actually
several ways to do it. But I think perfume chemistry
is extremely interesting.