Now that we understand
ortho/para directors, let's take a look at an
example of a meta director. And so we start
with nitrobenzene. And if our goal is to
nitrate nitrobenzene we need to add
something like fuming nitric acid, sulfuric
acid as our catalyst, and we also need to heat it up. So we need to
force this reaction to occur because
nitrobenzene turns out to be not as reactive
as benzene itself. And so the end result
is to add a nitro group into the meta position. So we added a nitro group
onto the meta position on our benzene ring. And so the meta product
dominates here, not the ortho/para. Let's see if we
can figure out why by looking at some resonance
structures for this mechanism. And so we'll start
with and ortho attack. So in our first
example here we'll do an ortho attack where we add
the nitro group onto the ortho position. So remember, the function of the
nitric acid and sulfuric acid is to generate your
electrophile, which is the nitronium ion
right here with a plus 1 formal charge on the nitrogen. And so that's our electrophile. The benzene ring is going to
function as the nucleophile and so these pi
electrons here are going to attack this nitrogen,
pushing these electrons off onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead and
look at the results of our nucleophilic attack. We have a nitro
group right here. I want to show an
ortho attack, so I'm going to show the NO2 adding
onto the ortho position. So here's the ortho
position with an NO2. That carbon also has a
hydrogen bonded to it. Let's go ahead and
highlight some electrons. So these pi electrons
right here are forming a bond
between the nitrogen and the carbon on our ring. So that takes a bond
away from this carbon. And so that's where our plus 1
formal charge is going to go. And then of course we
still have these pi electrons in our ring like that. Let's go ahead and draw
a resonance structure for this ion here. So we have a pi bond next
to a positive charge. So we could take
these pi electrons and move them over to here. And let's go ahead and draw
that resonance structure. So we have our ring
top nitro group. Over here we have
the other nitro group in the ortho position. We have these pi
electrons at the top. We have these pi
electrons over here now, so let's highlight those. So the pi electrons in blue
have moved over to here, taking a bond away
from this carbon. So that carbon gets a plus
1 formal charge like that. So there's a
resonance structure. Let's go ahead
and draw one more. So I could show, once again,
these pi electrons moving down to here. And we have our ring. We have this top nitro
group, which I'm actually going to go ahead and draw
in the formal charges. And you'll see why in a second. So this oxygen has a
negative 1 formal charge and this nitrogen has a plus
1 formal charge like that. So over here we have
our other nitro group in the ortho position. We have pi electrons
here, and we just moved some pi electrons
over to this position. So let's go ahead and
highlight those too. So over here in red,
these pi electrons have moved over to
here, taking a bond away from this top carbon here. So that's where our
plus 1 charge goes now. So we have a plus 1 formal
charge on this top carbon here. And this is a destabilizing
resonance structure. And we know that because we
have a positive 1 formal charge on this nitrogen
and a positive 1 formal charge on this
carbon on our ring. And so like charges repel,
and therefore destabilize this resonance structure, So we have a destabilizing
resonance structure. And remember, it's actually
really a [INAUDIBLE] of our resonance structures
for our sigma complex. But one of those
resonance structures is destabilizing, which means
that this sigma complex is not very likely to form. So let's go ahead and
look at a meta attack. And you'll see that we will not
have a destabilizing resonance structure when we
do a meta attack. So let's go ahead
and once again show our nitrobenzene and
our nitronium ion. And this time we will
do a meta attack. So if I want to show a nitro
group adding onto the meta position I would once again
use these pi electrons. So nucleophilic attack
pushes these electrons off. And so we're going to once again
show the resulting carbocation. So we have a nitro
group right here. And this time we're showing
the nitro group adding on meta. And once again there's a
hydrogen attached to our ring. And these pi electrons
here are forming the bonds between this carbon
and our nitrogen, taking a bond away
from this carbon. So that carbon gets a
plus 1 formal charge. And we still have, of course,
pi electrons in our ring. And so that's our first
resonance structure. We can draw another one. I could take these pi electrons
and move them over to here. So let's go ahead and show
the next resonance structure with our ring. Our nitro group here, our nitro
group in the meta position, and hydrogen also
attached to that carbon. Pi electrons here,
and pi electrons have moved over to here. So let me highlight those. So these pi electrons
have moved over to here, taking a bond away
from this carbon. So we get a plus 1
formal charge here. We can draw another
resonance structure taking these pi electrons
and moving them over to here. So let's go ahead and do that. We have our ring once again. We have a nitro group
in the top carbon. We have a nitro group
in the meta position. Once again, we have hydrogen,
we have these pi electrons, and we now have moved
the pi electrons over to here, so let me
highlight those. So in red, these pi
electrons have moved over to this position, taking a
bond away from this carbon. So we get a plus 1 formal
charge on that carbon. And so these are the
three resonance structures that show up for a meta attack. And notice, we don't
have a destabilizing one. So in our three resonance
structures, none of them have the two positive charges
right next to each other as we saw in the
previous example. So it's not so much that the
sigma complex for a meta attack is extra stable. It's just that the sigma
complex for a meta attack doesn't have any
destabilizing like charges repelling each other. And so because there
is no destabilization the meta sigma complex
becomes the most stable one and the one that's most likely
to form in your mechanism. And so that's why a
nitro group on your ring is going to function
as a meta director. Let's go ahead and
do a para attack so that you can see that a para
attack is going to give you the same situation
as an ortho attack. So if I wanted to add this nitro
group into the para position, I would have to use these pi
electrons over here this time. So nucleophilic attack,
so nucleophile attacks the electrophile, once again
pushing those electrons off. And so we have our
nitro group here. We have these pi electrons. We are now going to show
the nitro group in the para position. So if I'm saying these
electrons in magenta are going to form a
bond with this nitrogen right here, taking a bond
away from that carbon. So that gets our plus 1
formal charge right here. So a resonance structure would
be to take these pi electrons and move them over to here. So let's go ahead and
show the next one. So we have our ring. And this time I'm
going to draw out the formal charges
on my nitro group. So I have an oxygen
that's negatively charged. This nitrogen has a plus
1 formal charge on it. And my pi electrons, I
have pi electrons here. I have my nitro group once
again in the para position. And I have some pi
electrons over here as well. So let's highlight those. So the pi electrons in blue
have moved over to here, taking a bond away
from this top carbon. And so I can go ahead and
draw a plus 1 formal charge on this top carbon. And once again, this is
our destabilizing resonance structure. I have a positively
charged carbon on my ring right next to my
positively charged nitrogen. So like charges repel. This is the destabilizing
resonance structure which of course destabilizes
the sigma complex for a para attack. Just to be complete, I can draw
another resonance structure. So I could take these pi
electrons over to here. So let's go ahead and
draw our third one. So I have my nitro group,
I have pi electrons here, pi electrons here. And I have a nitro
in the para position. And let me go ahead and
highlight those electrons one last time. So I have these electrons
in red have moved over to here, taking a bond
away from this carbon. And so that will get
our plus 1 formal charge for our last
resonance structure. So once again, remember
that the sigma complex is a hybrid of these
resonance structures. But since we can draw a
destabilizing resonance structure, this
sigma complex is not the one that's most
likely to form. So the meta attack is preferred. So one more quick thing
about meta directors, so an easy way to
recognize a meta director. So we've seen in this
example our substituent has an atom as a positive charge
right next to our benzene ring. And so one way to look for a
meta director would be here's just a generic
substituent y directly bonded to our benzene ring. So the atom directly bonded
to your benzene ring, if there's a plus 1
formal charge on it, we've just seen that resonance
structures are destabilized for an ortho/para attack. Therefore, meta
attack is preferred. So you could look for
a plus 1 formal charge or you could look for
a partial positive. And so that's just my
really fast and easy way of figuring out a meta director. So in the next video, we'll
look in much more detail about some other meta directors.