- [Instructor] Most of us
are familiar with dogs, often times known as man's best friend. And what's fascinating about them is that they are one species, even
though different types of dogs, different breeds could
look very, very different. And the fact that they're
one species says that if you have a male and a female dog, any two, that in theory
they could reproduce and produce viable offspring. Although in, for example,
the case of this character and this character, the mechanics
could get quite difficult. But an interesting question
is, is where do dogs come from and why do we have these seemingly specialized breeds amongst dogs? You might have things like
a Rottweiler that's better for protection, you might
have things like terriers that have been specialized
to maybe go after rodents. You have things like border
collies that are good at herding other types of animals. The simple answer is, through artificial
selection and domestication. Remember, in any population of a species there's variation in that species. And when we talked
about natural selection, that's where the environment might select for certain of those variants. Certain of those variants might
make it a little bit easier to survive or reproduce, and
then those would predominate and that's how evolution happens. Artificial selection and
domestication is where humans take matters into their own hands. And instead of waiting
for nature to do things, they are the selection factor. They pick which of the
species get to reproduce and which ones don't. And when you have that type
of artificial selection, the change can happen much, much faster. Breeding is essentially
artificial selection. So dogs like this, and
all the dogs we know of had ancestors that looked like this, that looked like a wolf, that were a wolf. And what we theorize is
that the early stages of some wolf eventually evolving into dogs might have been more
traditional natural selection where tens of thousands of years ago our hunter gatherer ancestors
as they hunted and gathering they might have left
over food here or there, and some of the wolves that
just happened to be the variants that were a little bit more
comfortable getting close to humans might have
benefited from being able to get some of that left over food, being able to get some of the remains that the human beings left behind. But then over time, human
beings probably realized that hey, these wolves
are useful to have around. Maybe they provide some
form of protection, maybe over time they
started breeding the wolves so the wolves that were
especially friendly, the wolves that were especially
good at a certain task, say protection, or going
after some type of an animal or retrieving things, they allowed those to reproduce together and over time, over tens of thousands of years, we went from wolves to dogs. And even once we had dogs, the breeding got even more specialized. As I mentioned, things
like border collies, this was many years, many
generations of breeding where sheep herders
might have selected dogs that were good at herding sheep. That terriers came from
dogs that were good at going after rodents,
things like rottweilers or dogs breeding the dogs
that were especially good at providing protection or defense. And it isn't just dogs that are products of artificial selection and domestication. Pretty much any animal that you might see on say a farm would be the product of artificial selection and domestication. A wild pig looks like this, while the ones that you would see on
a farm look like that. And once again, they would
have selected for things like docility, things where
they're less aggressive and they're easier to take care of. And artificial selection and domestication does not apply just to animals. Pretty much anything you might
see in the produce section of your supermarket is the product of artificial selection and domestication. There might be wild
variants of these different vegetables or these different fruits, but over roughly 10 or 15,000 years of human agriculture,
every generation of crop they would have selected for the crops that are more robust, that tasted better, that were able to grow
in different climates and by allowing those
variants to reproduce, we eventually ended up
with the domesticated crops we see today.