CRAIG BENJAMIN:
Hello. I'm standing here at
the Port of Seattle, one of the great commercial
ports of the world, as a reminder to all of us
that we live today at the center of this vast,
connected, globalized world. But, of course,
to a certain extent, it's always been this way. From the beginning
of human history, our early cultures,
early civilizations have been connected
in various ways. We fought with each other,
we traded ideas with each other, we traded material
goods with each other, we traded diseases
with each other. This is particularly
true during the era of agrarian civilizations,
when these vast civilizations that appeared in the
Afro-Eurasian world zone established conditions
that were right for scales of exchange hitherto
unseen in human history. The key players in this
were the Romans, the Parthians, the Kushans,
and the Han Chinese. And with the road
networks they laid down, with the port facilities
they constructed, with the coinage
they started to use, conditions were ready for trade
that we had not seen before. This happened mainly along
the great Silk Roads network. This is a network of
roads that connected China through Central Asia,
joining the mountain ranges of Central Asia and
the deserts eventually with the Persian world
and onto the Roman world. The Silk Roads exploded
in the first century BCE when the Han Chinese
began to connect with the rest of Eurasia
for the first time. This fortunately coincided
with the establishment of more peaceful
conditions in Rome with the advent of Augustus,
the first emperor of Rome. After a century of civil war,
suddenly a climate of peace emerged within Rome
that allowed for a demand for exotic goods
from Asia to emerge. And what was most
in demand was silk. This exotic material
spun from these small cocoons spun by worms. In China, the Chinese
had discovered this secret thousands of years earlier
but now the demand emerged in Rome amongst
wealthy patrician women, who came to believe that
their most luxurious garments had to be made of this exotic,
sensual, translucent material. To supply this demand, caravans
would come out of China, cross these dreadful deserts,
the Taklamakan, the Gobi desert, crossed the highest mountain
ranges on Earth, passing these goods onto various
middlemen along the way until they ended up
in China. Maritime routes
became important too as more and more port
facilities were developed, as sailors discovered
the monsoon trade winds that would drive the ships
across the Indian Ocean at one time of the year
and then back again the other way at a
different time of the year, this made deep oceangoing
transport and trade possible, the sort of thing we see
behind me here today. Eventually, these
intense levels of trade, which also facilitated
the movement of religions and of diseases, began to dissipate
in the third century when political instability in
Rome and in China brought an end to this great Silk Roads era. Other trade networks
existed as well, in Australia, in the Americas. Indeed in the Americas
we know that trade was going on
between South America, Mesoamerica, and even up
into the Ohio Valley, the Mississippi Valley,
Chaco Canyon, and so on. We have evidence
of plenty of goods and crops moving back and forth. But frankly,
the scales of exchange in these other parts
of the world was so much smaller,
so much less intense. This gave Afro-Eurasia
something of an edge. It became more dynamic,
it had larger populations, it had people who built up
immunities to diseases, it had a lot more
technological sophistication. So when the world zones
began to reconnect after 1492, Afro-Eurasia was said
to absolutely dominate these other world zones
and drive the world into the modern revolution. In many ways, the Silk Roads
were the forerunner to the sort of
scales of exchanges you see behind me now. This was the beginning
of the establishment of these great
global trade networks.