How many different species
of living organisms do you think exist
on our tiny planet? The truth is
we don't really know. Estimates range from perhaps
five million to perhaps as many
as 30 million, and it could be a lot
more than that. That's staggering variety. And that's only a tiny fraction
of all the species that have existed
in the history of life which extends over
almost four billion years. Yeah, life really is mysterious, but there's actually
quite a lot we know about it. We've seen that... we know some of the main
characteristics of life, and we also have
a pretty good idea of how and why
life changes over time. Now, what we're
going to do in this unit is we're going to survey
the history of life over almost four billion years. We'll begin with the origins
of life. That, remember, is our first... fifth major threshold
in this course. And then what we're going to do
is we're going to look at a series of smaller
turning points. We call them mini-thresholds. These are times
when something new appears that seems to be
slightly more complex than the things
that existed before. And all of this, of course,
is pointing to the creation of our own species,
Homo sapiens. We begin with the origins
of life. Now remember, this is the fifth
major threshold of increasing complexity
in our course, and let me remind you
what we mean by thresholds of increasing complexity. At each of these thresholds, something new seems to appear
in the Universe, something with entirely
new qualities. Now, each time we've crossed
these thresholds, we've asked similar questions. So when we talked about
the first threshold, the creation of the Universe,
or the creation of stars or the creation
of new chemical elements, or the creation of planets,
we asked, "What were
the Goldilocks conditions that made it possible
to cross that threshold?" So let's ask the same question
about life. Now, with life,
there's a problem because biologists suspect
that there's life all through the Universe, but the truth is we don't know. The only place in which
we're sure life appeared is on our planet. So that's the only place
we can really study it. So let's rephrase the question. What were
the Goldilocks conditions for the origins of life
on Earth? Now, we can start with the fact
that living organisms consist of very,
very complex chemicals. They're not just large; they're also organized
in very precise structures, whereas non-living things consist of very simple
molecules. So to get life, you need environments
in which you can do really exotic, really interesting, really elaborate chemistry. So where do you find conditions such that atoms can combine
in all sorts of exotic forms? Let's recall that in space,
you can do simple chemistry-- atoms can combine
to form molecules with perhaps ten, 20, 30, never more than 100 atoms. But rocky planets
like our Earth, it turns out, are wonderful environments
for good chemistry. There are three reasons
for this. The first is that they contain
a great diversity of different elements. And above all,
they contain those elements that you need for organic life. The crucial ones are carbon... There's lots of hydrogen,
of course. There's also oxygen, nitrogen. These are all elements
that were formed in dying stars, and also a bit of phosphorous
and sulfur. The second Goldilocks condition
is energy. But this is subtle. You mustn't have too much. If there's too much, you blast
complex molecules apart. But you mustn't have too little. If there's too little,
there's not the energy for atoms to combine. The Earth was perfect. It was near a star
so it had energy, but not too much. And it also had energy
coming up from its hot, molten core. Now, the third
Goldilocks condition is slightly subtler. It's the presence of liquids and, above all, of water. Why? Well, think about it. In gases, atoms are moving
around incredibly fast and it's very hard for
them to link up. But in solids,
atoms are stuck. They're stuck in a grid,
like bad traffic, like a traffic jam. But in liquids, they can cruise
past each other so it's much easier for them
to hitch up in all sorts of complex forms. So here are our three
Goldilocks conditions. The early Earth
was almost perfect for elaborate chemistry. We've seen that all these
Goldilocks conditions existed on the early Earth. Probably the ideal place
for elaborate chemistry was deep beneath the oceans
at cracks in the Earth's crust, mid-oceanic vents. These were ideal
because you've got lots of chemicals seeping up
from the mantle and you've also got
lots of energy. And we know now
that under these conditions, it's fairly simple to create the simplest organic molecules that appear in all living
organisms. I'm talking about molecules
with just ten, 20, 30 atoms in them
such as amino acids, which are the basis
of all proteins, or nucleotides,
which are the basis of DNA. We also know
that it's not too hard under these conditions to string those simple molecules
together in huge chains to form proteins
and nucleotide molecules. What gets tricky
is the next stage. How, with lots of
these large molecules, to bring them together
to form cells with membranes-- they're like skins-- and also with DNA
at their center. But most biologists
are pretty confident that though there's still
some mystery here, they'll work it out.