- [Instructor] In this off-white color, I have a handful of statements that you might hear folks say especially in the United States, and what we're going to think
about is are these statements that you would typically
hear from a liberal? And I'm gonna make a little key here, so I'm gonna use a light blue for liberal. Conservative, I'll use this salmon color for conservative, or a libertarian? So I'll do this white
color for libertarian. Libertarian. And I've pre-grouped these
statements into categories. They could be views on social
issues or economic issues and within each of those dimensions, they could be views that
might want more social or economic control or ones that want less social or economic control, and this isn't a perfect full sampling of all of the major issues
that folks will talk about and some of these things
kind of border on social and economic, or some of them could be viewed as more
control depending on how you view it or less control, but this is a first take on things. So let's just go from the
top left to the bottom right, and I encourage you to
keep pausing this video and coming to your own conclusion. So this first statement,
affirmative action is a good thing. Would you expect that to come
from someone with a liberal, conservative, or libertarian ideology? Well, this would typically come from someone with a liberal ideology. Much of the ideas and policies that liberals would favor
might be around curing social injustice, so they might say, hey, we don't have the proper
diversity in certain walks of life right now, we don't
have a level playing field, so we need to make sure that people are properly represented, and so that would be something that you would hear from liberals, and it would be something that in general involves more control. A libertarian or a conservative would say, hey, we shouldn't try to
do social engineering here, we should maybe make sure
people have equal opportunities, but that doesn't mean that you have to have equal
representation and outcome. This next statement, marriage should be between a man and woman. Pause this video. Who is likely to say that? Well, that would typically come from someone with a conservative ideology. This would be around a theme that many folks with conservative
ideologies would point to values that are worth
preserving in a society, that should not change, and so that would
typically come from them, while a liberal or libertarian
is more likely to say, hey, what goes on between two people, well, that's their decision and really the government should have no say on what they do. We need tougher penalties and policing to deal with crime. Well, once again, that would
be something that you would likely hear from someone
with a conservative ideology. A liberal or libertarian
would be on the opposite side. They would say, hey, I'm
afraid of too strict penalties, too strict policing, I'm afraid that the government is putting
too many people in jail. So now let's go to fewer social controls. So marijuana should be legalized. Pause this video. Who is more likely to say that? Well, many liberals would
be likely to say that, and also libertarians. They would say, hey, once again, what someone does within
their own privacy, why should the government have a say, while many conservatives, and this goes back to values and kind of social fiber, might say, well no, some of these drugs, they break down people's value system. Maybe they lead to crime and
so a conservative would be more likely to be against legalizing
something like marijuana. The next statement. Laws restricting gun
rights are unconstitutional and won't have the intended impact. Pause this video. Who would say that? Well, you would often hear a statement like this from someone with
a conservative ideology, but also from someone with
a libertarian ideology, so libertarian ideology would
also say something like that, and they would both cite that people have a right
to protect themselves, they might cite, hey, people have a right to use guns for things like hunting, and especially libertarians
might make the argument that people need to be armed in order to protect themselves from
an overly strong government, from an overly strong police state. So the next statement. Same-sex couples should
have full marriage rights. Who's most likely to say that? Well, this is kind of
the opposite statement of this one we saw up here, and for the reasons we mentioned, this is more likely to come from someone with a liberal
ideology or a libertarian, libertarian ideology. And for them, it would be about personal liberty and equal rights. And so you might already see some trends that the conservative
and liberals are kind of mixed on the social when
it comes to more control or less control, and don't read too much into how many there are of these. This is just, you could view as a random sampling of some issues. If I sampled more, you might
have more liberal boxes up here or more conservative boxes down here, but it seems like a mix. But one clear thing that comes out is that libertarians
on the social dimension are for less control. But what about the economic dimension? So this first statement, everyone has a right
to quality healthcare. Who's more likely to say that? Well, that would be a liberal. Liberals, once again, they
think a lot about injustice and inequality and they
want the government to be proactive about it. And so they would say,
hey, the government should somehow supply universal
healthcare to folks. Conservatives or libertarians, not that they don't care
about injustice or inequality, but they would argue that, hey, when the government kind
of intervenes in things, they don't, they have all sorts
of unintended consequences and oftentimes do more harm than good. The next statement. Rent control is a good thing. Well, once again, this is
likely to come from a liberal, probably motivated from the idea that if rents or living
costs are getting too high, that this is a way to avoid
people being displaced or being priced out of their neighborhood. Now, conservatives and
libertarians would argue that rent control distorts the market, it actually makes the properties that aren't on rent
control overly expensive, and so it's probably
doing more harm than good. The next statement. Social safety nets are crucial. Once again, this is likely to come from someone
with a liberal ideology. They believe that someone, that the government has
a role in making sure that everyone has a
basic standard of living, so programs like food stamps or welfare. Every worker has the
right to a living wage. And living wage is sometimes, you'll hear this in the context
of minimum-wage discussions. Who would say that? Well, once again, you're likely to hear this from
someone with a liberal ideology. They believe that higher
minimum wages are a good thing, while conservatives or
libertarians would argue that, no, that distorts the market and actually you might
increase unemployment and you might hurt the very people that you're trying to help with some of these efforts around minimum ages. And what about here when we go to less control on the economy? Government intervention in the free market will slow
the economy, hurting everyone. Well, as you could imagine, this is kind of the opposite
statement as these here, because these once at the top are all the government intervening in a free economy in some way, and so this statement is more likely to come from a conservative, some of the conservative
ideology or a libertarian. And so when you look in
the economic dimension, the distinction between
conservative and liberal, at least when it comes to more control and less control, become more clear. On economics, liberals
tend to favor more control, more government intervention with a focus of trying to address social or economic inequality or
environmental concerns, while conservatives and
libertarians will often say, well, that's gonna do more harm than good, the government does have some functions but it should really
be as small as possible and free markets are what's, in the end of the day, going
to make people better off. So I will leave you there, this is a very simple model, but it helps us start to
think about these issues, and so when you think about issues and you read about it in the newspaper, try to think about it in
this type of a framework.