(upbeat music) - Creativity is really important for me as like a future job, as
a part of my future job I would want to do something that changes and then I can use problem
solving skills constantly. I feel like when I make
animations or when I figure out how to explain something, I love that because there's
so many different solutions, but knowing that you can
try to find and experiment with different ones and maybe
create something beautiful is really, I don't know, inspiring to me. - Mathematicals educational initiative that I co-founded with
a fellow mathematician, Jess Williams. And what we're trying to do is
make maths fun and accessible and encourage more girls
to pursue careers in maths. So creativity is essential here because we're trying to think of ways that people will enjoy maths and it will be fun and accessible to them. So different creative
techniques that we've been using are trying to present
mathematical problems in fun, short videos, and
that explain the problem in a way that everybody will understand and will make them want to learn more and discover more about the
topics that we're talking about. - I'm really lucky that I get to be creative
every day in my work and I have been since I got
into this field of data science. So in general, across the last decade, my work has really been about designing and testing innovative ways
to capture human behavior within game-based assessments. So my collaborators and I, from the time I was in
graduate school to now, use a variety of different
modeling techniques from various fields, we'll pull things from
engineering, aerospace, more basic mathematical models
to help us achieve this goal. We get to think outside the box. We get to think about how we
can pull in different types of thinking from different
fields to help us better understand human behavior,
human cognition, learning. So it's really exciting and really novel. And it's something that because
of the field that I'm in I've been able to do this
now for multiple years.