- [Instructor] What we are
going to do in this video is discuss the United States Senate. We're gonna focus not only
on areas where the Senate has special influence where
the House of Representatives does not, but we'll also focus on how the Senate actually conducts business. And as we'll see the
processes and the rules that the Senate uses
makes it more difficult for a simple majority
to do what they want. So in terms of special influence, only the Senate, not the
House of Representatives, is involved in ratifying treaties. So the executive, the president,
they can negotiate a treaty but it does not become effective, binding, from a United States point
of view until it is ratified by the United States Senate. And it has to be ratified
by a 2/3 supermajority. And this is one of the
reasons why it is viewed that the Senate has more
influence on foreign relations than the House of Representatives. The other area that the Senate is involved is in confirming appointments. These could be appointments
to the president's cabinet. These could also be
judiciary appointments. It could be to lower federal courts, or to the United States Supreme Court. The House of Representatives
once again is not involved. But to appreciate just how
things go through the Senate, whether we're talking about appointments, or even if we're talking
about general legislation, let's remind ourselves
the overall process. So let's just say that this
is a piece of legislation right over here. It could have been drafted by a staffer for a senator,
maybe with help from some constituents or from
some special interest groups, maybe some lobbyists, and it will be introduced
to an appropriate committee by a senator or by a group of senators. For example if this legislation is about the armed services, it would go to the Armed Services Committee. Now the committee could
decide to have some hearings around the legislation. Maybe they bring in the
Secretary of Defense, maybe they bring in some military leaders, and ask them questions about their views about whether the legislation
is a good idea or not, or they just want general context. Then they might also have some debate. And then they might decide to vote on that legislation. And if that vote passes, if they get a majority in that committee, then it will go to the Senate Floor. Now before we even talk about what happens on the floor of the Senate, because that's where things
get really interesting, it's important to point out
that even within committee, the leadership has a lot of influence. And the leadership is generally controlled by the majority party. Because the leadership might
decide that hey you know what, they're not interested in this bill. So instead of going
through this process here, they might just decide to table the bill, which kind of just puts it into a limbo. But let's talk about the reality
where it does get voted on, it does get a majority, and
it goes to the Senate floor. Now what's going to happen
next in the Senate floor is a debate over that bill, and I'm writing debate in
caps because the Senate is famous for its debates. And the whole idea of ending
a debate so that you can vote is critical inside of the Senate. In order to end a debate, you need something
called unanimous consent, unanimous consent, which is exactly what it sounds like. It has to be unanimous. All of the senators,
all 100, have to agree, have to consent to ending the debate so that you can get to a vote. And once you get to the vote, if we're talking about a
general piece of legislation, if we're talking about an appointment, then you just need a simple majority. So you just need 51 votes to pass. Now some of you might be
saying wait hold on a second. I've always heard that in the Senate, in order to do anything,
you need a supermajority. You might've heard the 60 vote number. The reason why you hear
that is because many times the folks who do not wanna have a vote, especially if they think
that the vote is going to go against them, they will decide to not
consent to having a vote. And when you don't
consent to having a vote, that is known as a hold. And so that one senator or it
could be a group of senators that say hey I'm not giving
my consent to go to a vote. I want to keep debating on it. They are placing a hold. And this protracted debate is
often known as a filibuster, which is a every strange word. It was originally in reference to pirates, but it came to mean folks who were trying to hold up the legislation process. And it's become a mechanism
by which the folks who don't want the vote, who
might be against the bill, who might be in the minority, they might not have enough
votes to defeat the bill, might still try to hold things up. Now the reason why you
heard about 60 votes is because generally speaking, that is how you stop a filibuster. If you wanna stop a filibuster, you need to do something called cloture, or another way of thinking
about it is closure of the debate so that
you can get to a vote. And the reason why you hear 60 votes is for general legislation you need 60 votes in order to have cloture. So even though you only need
51 votes for the legislation to pass once you vote on it, to even get to that
point you need 60 votes. And this is why you hear
that for legislation to actually get through the Senate, you need 60 votes. Now there is an exception to this, and that exception is around appointments. Prior to 2013, in order to have cloture
for an appointment, you also needed 60 votes. But in 2013 it was decided
that for non-Supreme Court appointments you only needed 51 votes for cloture. And then in 2017 this was extended also to Supreme Court appointments. And so now for appointments, you only need 51 votes for
cloture to end a filibuster, and so and of course
you only need 51 votes for the confirmation. So functionally you just
need a simple majority now in the Senate for confirmations. But legislation you need 60 votes, and of course for things
like treaties you need a 2/3 supermajority. To convict someone in an
impeachment, say the president, you need a 2/3 supermajority. And like the House, if we're talking about
overriding a presidential veto or amending the Constitution, you need a 2/3 majority. Now what I've just talked about, it isn't extensive, it isn't exhaustive of all of the processes in the Senate, but hopefully it gives
you appreciation of, one, areas where the Senate
has special influence, and also how the rules and processes of the Senate can be leveraged
by either the majority parties or minority parties
in order to get things done. And how in the Senate
because of things like unanimous consent, it is
harder for a simple majority to do whatever they want.