Hi, there, I'm Bob Bain. I'm a historian,
a history educator, former high school history
and social studies teacher and now a professor
at the University of Michigan in history
and history education. Now, I got to tell you, if my high school history
teachers knew that I had become an historian, they would be just freaking out,
to be honest with you. I was a horrible high school
history student, horrible. And the reason is, is because
I hated history. Why? I thought history was only about
memorizing names, dates, events that I didn't care about, that happened long before
I was born and didn't seem to have
any importance in my own life and usually came delivered
in textbooks that weighed about eight pounds. It wasn't until
I got to college and I actually had to take
a history course. I was a science and math major and I needed the
history and humanities. So I signed up for a course
that I thought would be easy. It was a large class. There were 400 people in it. I thought the guy
would never call on me, I wouldn't necessarily
have to be engaged. And then a stunning
thing happened. He came in
and he started class and he asked
all of us a question. But it was a question
that was different than any question
I'd been asked in a history classroom before. It wasn't like,
"When did this happen?" He asked a question about me,
about my identity, about the world
that I was living in, and was asking us about the ways
in which the past had shaped the opportunities
that I had, the experiences that I had. He was situating me,
by his question, in time. And he began to show me
that things that my ancestors-- not only my ancestors but my
ancestors in my community-- had done, choices they had made that actually helped
define and shape who I was. He began to help me see that
the context that I'd lived in was an invention
by other people, that I was a product, and I
lived in a product, of the past. He began to show me
that studying the past-- asking important questions,
questions that I care about, not just questions
that someone gave me because I had it spit back
information on a test-- is actually
what a historian does. They pose questions
about the past and the present because they're driving
of interest to them. And so I began to take up
the study of history and what I learned was that
history is actually a lot different than the way
it was presented to me as stuff to be memorized. History is all about questions,
all about answers and all about evidence. History is like
being a detective and trying to understand
the mystery that happened and trying to figure out
how it happened, because like good mysteries,
history is about events that happen in the present
and then they disappear. And that's
a pretty stunning thing and it's much different
than some sciences that can study events
that happened over and over and over again. In fact,
they can create an experiment to replicate, to repeat
something that <i><b>happened.</b></i> Historians really can't do that. I mean, I can't repeat World
War I and actually repeat it. In order for us
to study an event, it has to leave some kind
of residue in the present. It has to leave
something behind. Now, what does it leave behind? You could say
it almost leaves behind garbage or residue. It could leave behind an object, it could leave behind
a document, it could leave behind some
record of the past event. And it's those things
that the historian studies. And they study it
by asking a question of it, and by posing a question to it,
it turns it from residue, garbage, junk into historical evidence
or historical sources. And just like a detective, the detective has to pose
questions to the source. Now, in some ways that's
the best historian's tool. The best historical tool
is the historian's imagination, the historian's questions. They're posing questions
about the context. Now, posing questions
to an object is what a historian does. So for example,
look around the classroom. Take an object that you've
probably not thought much about. Like let's take the clock
that's up there on the wall. Now, you've probably asked
some question like, "What time is it?" Or if you were like me,
"When does this class end?" But a historian might pose
some other questions about that clock,
like, "Who made it?" "Where was it made?" "How did it get to be here?" "What kind of transportation
system created it?" "How many people were involved
in the construction of that clock?" Or "Does it make a difference as to whether
that clock's running on time?" "When did the invention
of the time system that you and I use come?" And "How did that change
our lives?" And "How much of our life
is driven by a clock?" And "What happened before people
had mechanical clocks?" "How were they judging time?" "How were they living?" So historians study objects
and events in the past by studying the evidence
that they leave behind. Of course, studying it
is not just what historians do. They analyze it,
they compare it, they contrast it,
they corroborate it. In other words,
they look for one source and look for other sources
that either support this source, extend this source
or actually challenge it. And that helps historians
begin to understand what happened in the past. But then what they do
is they produce some understanding. They write about it,
they create a story about it. Sometimes it's a picture,
sometimes it's a movie, sometimes it's a lecture. Now, they do that
because they want people to understand the most
or the best accurate picture that they can get of the past. And that's very important, because you and I, whether you
know it or not, we use history. We use our understanding
of the past. And not just memorizing
names and dates, but you and I live in a world
that was shaped by the past. Soren Kierkegaard,
a great Danish philosopher, had a line that he once used
when he said, "You and I live
our lives forward. "We live our lives
into the future. "But we understand our lives
using the past. We understand our lives
backwards." Think about that. We live our lives forward, but
we understand them backwards. So by understanding your past,
you make sense of your present. By the way, you also make sense
of the future, because by understanding
the trends of the past, you can begin to make some accurate predictions
about the future or close to accurate
predictions. True of weather. That if you look at the past
patterns in weather you can begin to understand,
you know, the likelihood of whether or not you should put
on a heavier coat in the next couple of weeks. Or think about sports teams. We can understand the past
patterns in sports teams to get a little bit
more accurate in our predictions about what
might happen in the future. Now, historians ask
different kinds of questions. So if I were to ask questions
about the environment, I might be doing environmental
history, and so then what would be the
evidence I would be looking at? I'd be looking at temperature,
I'd be looking at wind patterns. I would be using the evidence
that might actually come from other people
like meteorologists, that I would be using to understand environmental
history. Or if I was looking
at social history, interested in how people
play games, how they listen to music,
how that changed over time. I might be drawing on a whole
different set of evidence, and that question would put me
in a different field of history. Of course, in this course
we're asking big questions and hence we end up
being big historians. But history is about
using evidence wherever we can find it, because whatever gets left
in the present is what historians can study. So next time you think about
someone talking about history, understand that it's really
about using the past to make sense
of the present and the future. And it's not just
about memorizing names, dates and places.