(gentle piano music) - [Steven] We're in the
Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms exhibition, and we're looking
at one of the great treasures of The British Library,
The Lindisfarne Gospels. It's an illuminated manuscript. It's a handmade object. - [Kathleen] In this exhibition, we have the unparalleled opportunity to see the beginning of the
Gospel of Saint Matthew. One of the most famous images in the book, the evangelist writing, he
is identified by his name, partly in Greek, and he's accompanied by his symbol of the man, here,
winged, who is also identified. - [Steven] So, by gospel, we're referring to one of four books in the New Testament. And one of the authors is
Saint Matthew, an Evangelist, here, depicted literally writing the words that are contained within
the manuscript before us. - [Kathleen] Yes this is an
extraordinary copy of the four Gospels, so the accounts
of Jesus' life and teaching written by his disciples and followers, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. In front of each of these
four books is an extraordinary page typically referred
to as a carpet page. Detailed entwined decorations
with the shape of a cross. These beautiful pages may
have served as the internal cover to make each Gospel
its own separate book. - [Steven] And this particular carpet page is extraordinary for its
brilliance and color, its precision in line, its
complex mirrored interlacing. - [Kathleen] This sort of
decoration puts us in mind immediately of the metalwork
that has been found in various archeological
finds, most notably, Sutton Hoo, the great buckle,
which is in the exhibition. So we can see ideas that the artist is using in creating these remarkable images. - [Steven] And this carpet page, which comes just after the
image of Saint Matthew, is largely abstract, with
the exception of the cross and certain minute animal and bird heads that are woven into the carpet, in a style that we often
refer to as Hiberno-Saxon. And it's in such contrast
to the more classical image that we're seeing here. - [Kathleen] We have this
fusion of cultural ideas, artistic understandings, and
that is one of the themes that we're bringing out
throughout the exhibition, that people traveled, books
traveled, ideas traveled, and you get this wonderful
mixing of creative ideas. - [Steven] And it makes
sense, because the Irish Christian tradition was
longstanding by this point, but influences also coming from Rome, and this book is a perfect reflection of the integration of those traditions. - [Kathleen] This book
was made on the island of Lindisfarne, it's off
the coast of Northumbria, and that monastery was
founded from missionaries from Iona, which is now in Scotland, but ultimately, from Ireland. So the Irish tradition
that's strong there, but equally, the abbots,
traveled regularly to Rome. We know that they brought back books, they brought back liturgical
material, stained glass, so they're very aware of,
and writing in a style, reflective of a Mediterranean tradition. - [Steven] I think, when
many people think about the island monastery on Lindisfarne, they think about an isolated community, but it was anything but. - [Kathleen] Yes, it was
one of the great centers of learning in Anglo-Saxon
England at the time, and I think it also points
out how often people traveled. Sometimes, as you say, we
think of them isolated, remote, and it is a bit remote,
yet people and ideas traveled throughout
Europe, as they do today. - [Steven] And we can see that, in this magnificent
painting at the beginning of the Gospel of Saint
Matthew, we see Matthew, his head surrounded by a
halo, his body represented sitting firmly on a cushion, on a stool, seen in perspective, perhaps
not perfect linear perspective, nevertheless, that moves back into space. The pose is a complex
one, an ambitious one, clearly referencing the naturalism that comes from the ancient
Greek and Roman tradition. - [Kathleen] Yes, a few steps away from where we're standing here is
the great Codex Amiatinus. This is a whole Bible,
so both the Old Testament and the New Testament. It's huge, it has over 1000 leaves, about a foot in width, and
it weighs over 75 pounds. We have it open to the
famous image of Ezra writing. We can compare how very
similar these two images are, the colors of the robes,
what they're sitting on, the position of the
feet, even their sandals, the way they're holding the pen. But in Lindisfarne, it's
flatter, it's more linear, it's more stylized. This has been debated,
but one can see that as a deliberate artistic choice, reflecting the aesthetic
of metalwork pattern and design that's slightly
different from this depiction, which was made in
Northumbria, within a decade, or maybe at the very same time that Lindisfarne was being made. - [Steven] So it's entirely possible that both of these illustrations
were drawing on the same source. - [Kathleen] There's much
debate in the literature, are they both copying the same exemplar? But, clearly, they're so similar, and they're working at the same time, very closely related, geographically, so perhaps they were
looking at the same book, or same type of book,
to produce these images. But this is absolutely the
classic author portrait, derived from antiquity,
adapted for Christian use, for the writers of the Gospels. - [Steven] Scholars
believe that the manuscript was penned by a single individual. - [Kathleen] We have
quite detailed information about the individuals who were involved in the production of this book. In the late 10th century, the provost of Chester-le-Street,
then called Aldred, wrote a very detailed
colophon in Old English. He also went through the entire book, and put translations of the Latin words into Old English above each word. That is our earliest surviving copy of the Gospels in English. - [Steven] And this provides
a record of the authorship of the manufacture of the book itself, not only the bishop who
actually was the scribe, but also the man who bound the book, and then the hermit who
applied jewels to its cover. - [Kathleen] He gives us
the names of three people, that Eadfrith wrote it,
and then he goes on to say Bishop Ethilwald bound it,
and that the anchorite, Billfrith, adorned it
with jewels and gold. So the missing person here, who made these extraordinary decorations? - [Steven] And there's
been some assumption that it was the bishop who penned it, but we have no real evidence. And it's important to
remember that the colophon was produced more than two centuries after the book was produced. And although scholars feel
generally comfortable with it, we do want to be aware that
the colophon was not made immediately after the manuscript. We now often buy books online,
or we walk into a bookstore, and they're relatively inexpensive things. It's important to locate
this as a luxury object of almost unimaginable value. It would have taken hundreds of animals to produce the skin
necessary to write this. - [Kathleen] I think we sometimes forget that a manuscript means handwritten. Absolutely every aspect
of all of these books in the exhibition,
including this Gospel book, was done by hand. Skins had to be prepared, the lines ruled, the script written and
copied from another book, decoration added in
different colored pigments, it really is an astonishing achievement. (gentle piano music)