Hello, I'm Tara Von Der Linden a show
programmer for animatronic figures here at Walt Disney Imagineering. I work with the creative and engineering teams to design animatronic
characters. and I'll be your host for this lesson on how we bring those
characters to life. Characters are such an important part of our parks. They populate the land and really bring it to life. Some of these characters come from
films you know and love. Others are characters that we create. No matter where these characters come from our ultimate goal is to create an authentic,
emotional bond between our guests and characters. Walt built Disneyland
so guests could go meet the characters. When I was a child, I went to Epcot
Center and I got to go on the journey into imagination attraction. And I fell
in love with a character named Figment and you know kept bugging my parents the
whole week we were there. It's like, can I get a figment? Can I get a figment? I
finally got a figment. When I design a character, I try to make sure that guests
coming into the park today get that same emotional feeling to characters I
helped design, that I had to Figment as a child. One of our most popular
characters is Chewbacca. It is a very very emotional meeting for a lot of
people. To finally meet a living, breathing, reacting character in our land is something that we take very, very seriously. So my little boy, Mickey was a
part of his life from day one. And now they get to hug and give high-fives to these characters that they've grown to love. And it's been really exciting to
see young girls in their princess costumes come to meet the Dora, the Black
Panthers guard, and watch how after meeting them they stand up a little
straighter. And there's a little bit of fierceness in the way they stand in the
way they walk and the way they talk. As someone who helps create those
experiences and build those characters an experience like that, is sort of the
deepest honor and deepest satisfaction you can have with your work. And guests make this attachment to these characters by learning their stories. When creating new characters, it's important to understand what makes them tick, to
understand their backstory. What are their hopes and dreams? What are their fears? The more you get to know your character, the more believable they'll be. We can design cute characters but can we make a story for that character that engages guests? We're thinking about: What is the blend of wants and needs and likes and dislikes that are gonna come together to form a personality. You know, what part of the world did they grow up in or what part of the universe? The little twitch-like How old they are. The little twitch-like movements. The way that they walk, the way
that they strut. What kind of music do they listen to or like maybe they don't
even like music? But, why don't they like music? You need to think almost like a
psychologist when you're designing a character. Like, "Who is this character?" You
have to get inside the characters head because that's the only way you're going
to be able to write for the character and put the character in situations. And
it will also reflect the design of the character. And that involves lots and
lots of research. Many of the times the characters that we put in our parks come from existing films like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs or The Little Mermaid.
When we worked on the Little Mermaid, it was my job to help develop all of the
audio animatronic characters for that attraction. My favorite was Ursula, the
sea witch. When we developed that attraction we watched the film many
times, we met with some of the animators. We're looking at the physical, of course.
If the genie of Aladdin is a big blue guy, then we know our genie's gonna be a
big blue guy, but we also look at personality traits. The fact that the
genie in the animated film was voiced by Robin Williams means that he talked fast,
that he was wisecracking, that he could improv. So when we were doing our
theatrical production of Aladdin, we actually went to comedy clubs and improv
clubs and encouraged performers from the world of improv and stand-up comedy to
audition for the show as well. It was really going to be the actor's talent and
ability to think on his feet that we're going to really bring the
genie to life. You have to build a character that is extremely believable
and that is one that you can see, you can imagine walking and talking in the land.
Whether we're talking about animals or whether we're talking about robots or
whether we're talking about princesses or whether we're talking about
superheroes, they all have the same human impulses that make them really relatable.
You know, some have great curiosity, some have great compassion. When we meet
Aladdin, people call him a street rat because he steals from the local vendors,
but then he'll give it to someone who he realizes is hungrier. So you want to make
sure that your characters have qualities that will make us empathize with them
and sympathize with them and just want to spend time with them. Now it's your turn to start brainstorming the kind of character you might want to bring to
life for the land or attraction you're creating. The next exercise will help you
get started.