- [Instructor] When we
left off in the last video, things were not going particularly well for the English settlers at Jamestown. They had managed to
survive a couple of years by the skin of their teeth, but by 1610, they had endured
such incredible starvation that they were actually leaving. And as they were just
leaving the Chesapeake Bay, they met a ship with
English reinforcements, who ordered them back to Jamestown, and came bearing orders from England about a new strategy in Jamestown. And these new orders were
carried by a new commander, here this was Lord De La Warr. Spelled a little bit different, but the state of Delaware today is named after this gentleman. And Lord De La Warr said,
"Well, it's been great "that you've all been trying to get along "with these Powhatans, but
let's get rid of them." So he switched the English from their small amount of conflict
with the Native Americans over stealing food, to a pretty much all-out war of extinction against the Powhatans. And De La Warr was a veteran
of the Irish campaigns to subdue that colony. So he brings his tactics of complete
brutality and submission of the native population to the New World. He raids Native American villages. He burns their crops, and generally promotes an idea
that they'll be no such thing as peaceful co-existence between English settlers
and Native Americans. That the only thing for
Native Americans to do is go away or die. And these conflicts between
the English colonists and the Native Americans living
in this Virginia tidewater are called the Anglo-Powhatan Wars. The first Anglo-Powhatan war ended in 1614 with a brief period of peace, when this fellow here, John Rolfe married Pocahontas. As kind of a peace offering. But, by the time that the second Anglo-Powhatan
war was over in 1625, pretty much the entire Powhatan tribe had either been killed,
or driven from the area, and therefore this
English war of extinction against Native Americans had succeeded. Now John Rolfe made another contribution to the colony at Jamestown, beyond his marriage with Pocahontas, he also discovered that tobacco was a perfect crop for the kind of marshy Virginia soil. And tobacco was a commodity that was getting hotter
and hotter in Europe, and so they discovered
that they could grow pretty much as much tobacco
as they possibly could, and markets in Europe would just buy it and buy it and buy it. And so, although the
colonists at Jamestown didn't find the gold that
they were hoping for, they found a very
different way to get rich, and that was through cultivating tobacco. And this is going to have
enormous consequences for the development of
Virginia as a colony, both in terms of its geographic development, and also the
development of its labor force. As tobacco is an incredibly
labor-intensive crop, these English planters in Virginia will quickly look for ways to staff a labor force in the New World. And one way that they
will do this is through the importation of African slaves. The very first slave ship
arrived in Jamestown in 1619. We'll talk more about
that in the next video.