- [Instructor] We've already
seen that the E2 reaction has a concerted mechanism,
the carbon bonded to our halogen is our alpha
carbon, the carbon bonded to that carbon would be
a beta carbon and we need a beta proton for our mechanism. The hydrogen and the halogen
have to be on opposite sides of our bond, here,
first I draw in this line, they're on opposite sides. That's said to be anti. And these four atoms need to
be nearly in the same plane, the hydrogen, the carbon, the
carbon, and the halogen need to be nearly in the same
plane, so that's planar. So, we say this has to be antiperiplanar, so let me write this in here, so antiperiplanar. The anti meaning hydrogen
and halogen on opposite sides and the planar part
meaning those four atoms are in the same plane. Our strong base comes
along in our E2 mechanism so a negative charge and
takes our beta proton, at the same time these
electrons move in here to form our double bond and
these electrons come off onto our leaving group. So, let me show these
electrons in here in blue, those electrons in blue move
in to form our double bond and so we form an alkene. If we're thinking about
the stereoselectivity of an E2 mechanism, it
can be helpful to look at this mechanism from a
different point of view, for example from a Newman projection. So, here we have a Newman
projection and we could think about a base coming along
in our Newman projection and taking our beta protons, so we're taking this proton here. And then these electrons
would move into here, at the same time these electrons
come off onto our halogen so it's a little bit
easier to see that all four of those atoms are in the same plane if I draw a straight line through here. Or we could look at it from more of a Sawhorse projection, so here is our beta proton and
here is one of our carbons, here's another carbon,
and here's our halogen, our strong base is going
to take our beta proton, and these electrons would
move into here to form our double bond and these
electrons would come off onto our halogen so that
would give us our alkene. So let's take a look at an
example where we're thinking about the E2 mechanism
and stereoselectivity. Let's say we have this
alkyl halide and we react it with sodium ethoxide
which is a strong base. The carbon bonded to the
halogen is our alpha carbon and the carbons bonded to the alpha carbon are the beta carbons so
I'll call this beta one and then we have a beta
carbon on the right which I will call beta two. We're going to ignore
beta two for right now and just focus on beta one. Beta one carbon has two
hydrogens bonded to it so I'll put one on a
wedge and one on a dash, and let's highlight those,
the one on the wedge I'm going to make green,
and the one on the dash I'm going to make white. We're going to stare down
that bond, we're gonna stare down this beta one alpha carbon bond. So if you put your eye
right here and you stare this way and you stare down that bond, you're going to get a Newman projection. The hydrogen in green would
be going up and to the right, so here's the hydrogen in green. The hydrogen in white would
be going up and to the left. And then there'd be a methyl
group going straight down, so we won't spend too much
time on Newman projections since those are covered in earlier videos. On the back carbon he
bromine here would be down and to the right, and
then there would also be, on this drawing, a hydrogen
going away from us in space. On the Newman projection
that would be this hydrogen. Then finally there's a methyl
group going up in space, so here is our Newman projection
staring down that bond. If you look at the
hydrogen and the bromine, this hydrogen in white and the bromine, they're already
antiperiplanar to each other so if I draw in a line here, you can see that those four
atoms are in the same plane, which is what we want. However, to look at it
a little bit easier, I've just turned this whole
thing a little bit to the right, so this is really the same conformation, I haven't changed the conformation at all, I've just made that magenta line vertical. So, now we have our
hydrogen in white is here, our bromine in red is here, and the hydrogen in
green would be over here down and to the right. Notice that both of our methyl
groups are anti to each other in both of these, so it's really
the same Newman projection just turned a little bit
so we can see it better. We know in our E2
mechanism our strong base takes our beta proton, so our strong base would be the ethoxide anion, and it's gonna take this beta proton, these electrons move in here, these electrons come off
onto our leaving group, and when the double bond
forms the two methyl groups end up on opposite sides
of the double bond. This actually gives us our trans product, so we would get our product
as being trans right here. Maybe it's a little bit
easier to see this mechanism from the Sawhorse projection. On the right, so really,
again this is not a different conformation, this is just another way of looking at this molecule. Our alpha carbon would be here
'cause here's the bromine, so this would be our beta one carbon, and our strong base would
come along and it's going to take this proton, and
these electrons would move in here to form our double bond at the same time that the bromine leaves. So, this is our concerted mechanism. When the double bond forms,
these two methyl groups end up on opposite sides
of the double bond. Let's go to a video, now,
where I show you all of this using a model set and it
think it's a little bit easier to see that you make the trans product. Also, we'll look at a
different conformation and see the other product, so taking the green proton. I forgot to highlight this. This would be the white
proton that we are taking, and the green proton would be over here. Here's our alkyl halide, and you can see one hydrogen is green and
one hydrogen is white, and we have the red for the bromine. We're going to stare down
this carbon-carbon bond and notice I'm using these stretchy bonds to help us out with the E2 mechanism. If we stare down that carbon-carbon bond, we'll see things from a Newman projection. Notice, in this Newman
projection, I'm just gonna turn it a little bit so that
we get our beta proton and our red bromine
antiperiplanar and vertical. Next, think about these two methyl groups on the Newman projection as
being anti to each other. I'm gonna turn it a
little bit to see things from a Sawhorse perspective. Think about taking this
beta proton in the mechanism and pretend like that
red bromine goes away, and you can see that now our two methyl groups
are on opposite sides of the double bond that formed. This is the trans product. If we go back to our Newman projection, we know there's free rotation
around our single bond so I can rotate to get
a different conformation to put the green hydrogen
antiperiplanar to the red bromine. From this Newman projection,
you can see we have these two methyl groups that are
now gauche to each other. If I turn it to the side and
I take this beta proton here. Again pretend like the bromine goes away. Here you can see that
the two methyl groups are on the same side of the
double bond that formed. This is the cis product. Here's what we saw in the video. If you're talking about this conformation, our two methyl groups are
gauche to each other here. Let me highlight our proton in green, so here's the proton in green, and the bromine is red. If we're taking the proton in green, our strong base which
is our ethoxide anion takes this proton. These electrons move into
here, these electrons come off onto the bromine, and
your two methyl groups end up on the same side, so
this give you the cis product. From the Sawhorse projection,
if we take this proton, this proton is our green one
so let me highlight that, so this is the green proton and the bromine over here would be in red. If we take the green
proton, then these electrons move into here, the electrons
come off onto our bromine, and the two methyl groups
would be on the same side when the double bond forms, so this gives us our cis product. Let me go down here and draw it. This would give us our cis product with our two methyl
groups on the same side. If we think about those
two different conformations that have protons antiperiplanar, so this conformation had the
white proton antiperiplanar, this conformation had the
green proton antiperiplanar, the white one gave us the trans product, the green one gave us the cis product. We know that the first
conformation is more stable, this conformation is more
stable because our bulky methyl groups are anti to each other. Here those two bulky methyl
groups are gauche to each other and that's increased steric hindrance. This is the less stable conformation, and therefore this
product, our cis product, is not as stable as our trans product. To summarize what we saw
for this alkyl halides, we know that our beta one
carbon had two protons and we got two different
products depending on which proton the base took. We got the trans product
and we got the cis product. The trans product turns
out to be the major product for this reaction, 'cause this came from the more stable conformation. The cis product is the minor
product for this reaction, so this one came from the
less stable conformation. This reaction is said
to be stereoselective. We have these two stereoisomers and one stereoisomer is
favored over the other. The trans product is favored
over the cis product, and that's stereoselectivity. We've ignored this beta
two carbon until now. This beta two carbon has
several protons and it's easy to get one in an
antiperiplanar relationship with the bromine, I'll just
draw one in really quickly here. We think about a base taking our protons, so our base, our ethoxide
anion, takes this proton, these electrons move in
here, and these electrons come off onto the bromine. So, we're also going to
make another product. I'll put this in parentheses here. We're gonna make this product. Our electrons, in magenta, moved into here to form this double bond. This is what we would get
from our beta two carbon. Really in this video we're
focused on our beta one carbon and thinking about stereoselectivity, but you can't forget that
there can be more than one beta carbon in a reaction.