All right. So we're almost there. Now, what we're
going to do is we're going to wire our LEDs, so our
eyes, so that they light up. And we're going to use the
other sliding single-pull, double-throw switch to do that. So we're going to
take our needle nose, and again, we'll put a
little loop in the white wire that we had remaining
from our previous that we made earlier
in the videos. And we're going to loop that
around one of our remaining contacts on our single-pull,
double-throw switch. And again, it's a little tricky. You want to make sure that
you get a pretty tight loop. And then, you'll push
it around that contact. And once you've got
it on there, you can take your needle-nose
pliers and just make sure that it's
crimped tightly against the terminal that's
exposed from the switch there. And again, you want to
make sure that it's not touching any of the
other terminals. So if it is, the switch
will always stay on, and it won't work properly. I'm just twisting
it very tightly here to make sure that it's
very firmly connected. So now what we need
to do is we need to connect another wire to our
resistor leads from our LEDs that we created earlier
in the previous videos. And I'm going to go ahead
and bend this other terminal on the switch out of the
way that we don't need. And again, that's the one
that's on the far side of the sliding switch there. So now we have our
wire from our battery, which is our negative wire. And we're going to connect
back to our resistors. And we're just stripping off
a little piece of-- we're using the white wire again. We're going to strip off a
little piece of the white wire there. And again, we'll take
off about a quarter of an inch on both sides, and
3/8 of an inch will work too. Generally speaking,
if you take just a little bit more
insulation off, it's a little easier
because you have a little bit more
wire to loop around. But it also means
that you have more that you have to cover
up once you're done. It's kind of tricky,
but a quarter of an inch works for me. In any case, you can just
use the wire strippers there and pull the wire. If you wiggle it
around a little bit, it'll come out and strip
off the wire there. And again, we're going to
take our needle-nose pliers, and we're going to loop these
around and create the loop to go over the terminal there. Once we have the
loop done, we'll use our needle-nose pliers
to crimp it in place. OK. So once it's crimped in
place, we can hot glue it. And one of the things
I should have done is I should have tested to
make sure these contacts were in fact tightly connected
before I hot glued it. But I was pretty sure
they were, so I went ahead and hot glued it in
the interest of time. But when you're
making this, you're going to want to
test that switch. And you can use the
LEDs there to make sure that everything is
connected properly before you hot glue it. Because again, if
it's not, it's more of a pain to take the hot
glue out and redo everything. OK. So now we're going to connect
our LEDs to the remaining wire that we have on our switch. And that's going to allow
us to complete the circuit and turn on the eyes
of our spout bot. So we can take the two
leads from our resistors and touch them
there, and make sure that all the power is
flowing how it should be. And so you can see
how the switch will allow us to turn
that on and off. And so we're going to twist
those resistor leads together. And then, we're
going to wrap them around the white wire-- the
exposed part of the white wire. And that'll allow us
to complete the circuit and light up the LED lights,
or the eyes of our spout bot. OK. So once the eyes
have been connected and the wires are
twisted together, we want to make sure they're
twisted very tightly together. We'll make sure the
wires that are exposed are separated, so
they don't short. And then, we're going to
turn the switch on and off and see if our eyes light up. And they do. So we cut a little piece of
electrical tape, about a half of an inch square. And we're going to use
that electrical tape to basically cover
over the exposed wire that we just twisted
together, to ensure that it stays connected
and that it's insulated.