Before we get into the
nomenclature of alkynes, let's review a few of the
things we learned in the video on sp hybridization. So we learned that when a triple
bond is present in a molecule, these carbon atoms right
here are sp hybridized. And we talked about how
the geometry around our sp hybridized atoms must be linear. So this bond angle right
here is 180 degrees, which makes this portion of the
molecule with the triple bond in it linear, like that. And in that triple bond, we
know that one of those bonds is a sigma bond, and two of
those bonds are pi bonds, OK? So if you don't
remember that stuff, you need to go back and watch
the video on sp hybridization. So this particular
alkyne right here has alkyl groups on either
side of my triple bond. So it's a disubstituted alkyne,
and the more common term you'll see for that would
be an internal alkyne. So let's go ahead
and write that. So it's an internal alkyne. Which just means
that the triple bond is found in the
interior of the molecule in the interior of the chain. The triple bond is
not found on the end. So that's an internal
alkyne, which is different from
a terminal alkyne. So let's go ahead and
draw a terminal alkyne. And this is just
where your triple bond is at the end of
your carbon chain. So if I put a
hydrogen on one side, now it's only monosubstituted,
and the triple bond is on the end, or the
terminal, of my alkyne. So this is a terminal
alkyne, like this. So it's important to
distinguish between these, because in future
videos we'll see how things like terminal
alkynes have special properties. So let's talk about the
nomenclature of alkynes now. And let's start with
the simplest alkyne, a two carbon alkyne--
so a triple bond between two carbons, like that. And let's just clear up that
triple bond there a little bit. So this is our triple bond
between our two carbons, like that, and I have
hydrogens on either side. So when we talked about two
carbons for nomenclature, our root was eth-, and since
we're dealing with alkynes, our ending is going
to be -yne here. So I stick the root together
with the ending, so I take eth- and I add the -yne to it,
so it's called ethyne. So ethyne would be the IUPAC
name for this molecule. That's probably not the name
that's used most frequently. This is the most famous
alkyne, also called acetylene. So you've heard of
acetylene torches before, and you can do a very
cool demonstration called underwater fireworks where
you use acetylene in there. So this is acetylene,
which is the common name or ethyne, which is
more the IUPAC name, and this is the simplest alkyne. So let's name another one here. Let's get an actual chain,
a carbon chain in here, and let's see how to
name this one like that. Well, the first thing to
notice is the straight line that surrounds our
triple bond there. And remember, that's because
that portion of the molecule is linear, because those
carbons are sp hybridized. So when you're drawing
Lewis Dot Structures, you'll notice that
almost everyone will draw that portion
of the molecule straight to better reflect
the actual geometry of the molecule. All right, so I
need to figure out how many carbons
are in this alkyne. So I find my longest carbon
chain including my triple bond. So let's see, here is
one carbon, two carbons, three carbons, four, and five. So a five carbon alkyne. So remember your root for
five carbons would be pent-. So it would be pentane
if it was an alkane, but since it's an alkyne,
it would be pentyne. So this is pentyne. So I have that much so far. Next, I need to figure out
how to number my chain. So I could number
it from the left, or I could number
it from the right. My goal is to give my
triple bond the lowest number possible, so it's a
lot like double bonds here. So I want to give my triple
bond the lowest number possible, and that means, of course, I
need to start from the right here. So if I start from the right,
and I say this is carbon one, then my triple bond
starts at carbon two. And then this would be
carbon three, carbon four, and carbon five, like that. So the triple bond starts at
carbon two, so all I have to do is put a two in here
and say 2-pentyne. So in that respect, it's just
like naming alkenes here. So that's 2-pentyne. Let's do another one, one that's
a little bit more complicated than that. So let's look at
this molecule here. So there's my triple
bond, and then I have-- let's see, I'll put in
a chain and some methyl groups there-- and so this
is my molecule. All right, so once again
find the longest carbon chain that includes your triple bond. So that would be one, two,
three, four, five, six, and seven. So seven carbons would be
hept-, so it's heptyne. So let's go ahead and
write heptyne in here. So this molecule would
be heptyne, like that. And let's go ahead
and number it, right? I want to number to give
my triple bond the highest priority here. So in this case, if
I start from the left or start from the right, there'd
be a two for either that methyl group or for the start
of my triple bond. The triple bond is going to win. You want to give the triple
bond the highest priority, and that's the
reason you're going to start numbering
from the left. OK, so you're going to
go one, two, three, four, five, six, and seven, like that. And so now we can see
that our triple bond starts at carbon two. So I'm going to write
2-heptyne here, like that. And what else do I have? Well at carbon five
and at carbon six, I have methyl groups. So it'd be 5, 6-dimethyl, so go
ahead and put that in here, 5, 6-dimethyl-2-heptyne, like that. And this is kind of the old
school way of naming it. So old IUPAC recommendations
would say to name it this way, and maybe most organic
chemistry professors will still name this
molecule this way. But there's a newer
way that IUPAC recommends that you
name this molecule. So it would still
be 5, 6-dimethyl, except now you would go
ahead and write hept, and then you would put the
2 in between the ending. So it would be
hept-2-yne, like that. So the first way
is more old school, the second way is more
the new way of doing it. Either way is
perfectly acceptable, just make sure to do the one
that your professor prefers.