So in this video, we're
going to talk a little bit about soldering. This is a soldering iron. The tip of the soldering
iron gets really hot. It can get up to 700,
800 degrees hot or hotter depending on the iron. And so it's really
important that you never touch any of the metal. Always hold the
soldering iron like you would a pen or a pencil
because it gives you a good bit of control. And the soldering iron,
when it's not in use, should always be in its holder. So never just hold it while
you're waiting for something. Always leave it in the holder. That way, there's less chance
that it'll bump into something and burn it. Now keep in mind that the
cord of the soldering iron can get pulled out. So you want to make sure that
the cord is not running down near your legs or off the
edge of the table in a way where it could get caught
and the soldering iron could get pulled out. And definitely don't
ever let the cord fall over the iron like this
because it will melt the cord and can cause problems for you. So the first thing
that you want to do is make sure that you
have safety glasses. Make sure you have
those safety glasses on. Make sure you have a holder
for your soldering iron. That's going to keep the
soldering iron stable. I like to also
have a fan running so I've got a little fan here. And that helps to blow away
the fumes from the smoke. And this is a third arm here. It's got two alligator clips. And it's really
important that you always position your part
in a stable way. Make sure that the part is
mechanically tied together. So we're going to use
this wire and we're going to link the part together
by just twisting it together. The solder will hold
the part, but it's good to have a good
mechanical fit as well. OK. So we're going to put a
little bit a solder on that. Now remember, we want to tin
the tip of the soldering iron. So we take our solder
here and just get a little bit of extra
solder on the tip. We'll knock that off. And then we're going to
take the soldering iron and hold it against the metal. And get the metal to
heat up really quick. There we go. And now you can see,
because the metal is hot, the solder is flowing
right over it. And we didn't need to touch the
solder to the soldering iron. We touched the solder
to the twisted wire. So it's important to always
touch the solder to the part that you want to connect,
not to the soldering iron because the solder bonds
when the metal is hot. And you can see there's a
little bit of smoke coming up. That's actually
from the rosin core. You don't want to
breathe that so it's good to have a fan
or a window open. But that's the connected part. Always want to make sure your
part is securely held in place. And then you're good to go. You're ready to
do some soldering.