(gentle music) - [Instructor] What are
some of the global threats so biodiversity? First, I want to emphasize
that virtually everything we do locally has global consequences. When we talk about something
like a greenhouse gas or a pollutant, that's
something we produce locally from our car or from
other things that make up so many of our day to
day human activities. But in the grand scale of things, even these local activities and impacts can have global effects. Greenhouse gases aren't
just carbon dioxide, they also include water vapor, methane, ozone and nitrous oxide
but for this tutorial, we want to focus on the major effects of carbon dioxide which
chemists refer to as CO2. Increases in the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere mostly come through the burning of fossil fuels. Fossil fuels contain huge amounts of carbon and when they're burned, they not only release heat energy but they also release carbon dioxide although it's the energy,
the heat that we want, carbon dioxide is a side
product of the burning. That's why atmospheric CO2 is increasing. Why are so many people
concerned about that in terms of global change? The answer means we
need to say a few words about the greenhouse effect
and how that actually works. Light rays from the sun
arrive in our atmosphere as shorter wavelength radiation. This light energy hits
the surface of the earth. Some of it is reflected back in the form of slightly longer wavelength radiation and it's this longer wavelength radiation that falls into what is
known as the infrared area of the spectrum. Infrared is the same as heat, basically. So when light hits the
surface of the earth, it's changed into heat energy. That heat energy is, to a certain extent, absorbed and some of it's
reflected back up into space but greenhouse gases actually have a kind of snacking preference
for longer wave radiation like infrared energy. This keeps the heat energy
close to the earth's surface instead of allowing it
to go out into space. The more greenhouse gas you have, the more the heat builds up. It's no coincidence that this is called the greenhouse effect. It works almost exactly like
a gardener's greenhouse. A greenhouse is made of panes of glass and all that nice sunlight
goes through the glass. It strikes the plants,
the soil, the stuff inside the greenhouse but much of
it becomes infrared light or heat held within your
greenhouse and bouncing around through the air inside to
make things nice and warm. To a certain extent,
like our little plants in the greenhouse, earth's
organisms benefit from the greenhouse effect. Life on earth would
probably be quite different or perhaps not exist at
all if we didn't have some greenhouse effect. The problem is that now
we've increased the rate at which greenhouse gases
are being introduced to the atmosphere and therefore the rate at which warming occurs. Even gardeners have to
regulate the flow of light into a greenhouse to
keep it from overheating and cooking their veggies
before they even get picked off the plant. So there's your problem. Rate. It's not so much that
CO2 buildup is happening, it's happened before in
the history of the earth. Scientists even see cycles to these things but it's the current
rate at which CO2 content is changing that's the
running theme behind all of the problems that we're seeing today. Life just can't keep up. Here's a graph that
demonstrates CO2 content in our atmosphere over time. What I like about this
particular one is we go from about 400 thousand
years ago to the present. We've got these hundred
thousand year intervals and a series of
interesting drops and peaks and drops and peaks and
then coming to the present, it kind of goes off the charts so much that we've gotta magnify
that part of the graph to see it better. In here, in the industrial
age, we're experiencing this greatly enhanced period
of carbon dioxide production through the activities of humans. There are agencies out there
that are very concerned with this problem. One of them is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change or IPCC. According to the most
conservative IPCC estimates, the global temperature on earth, and this is an average temperature over the whole planet by the way, is going to rise 1.1
to 2.9 degrees celsius during this century. That's two to 5.2 degrees fahrenheit. Modeling or estimating
what will happen is tricky which is why we have
these suggestive ranges instead of precise single figures. But what we can say is that
in the worst case scenario models, we're talking 2.4
to over six degrees celsius and that's a whopping 4.3
to 11.5 degrees fahrenheit. Imagine the repercussions. If I think about going to my thermostat and just suddenly overnight
dialing it up 10 degrees, not only are my electric and
gas bills gonna go through the roof but it gets beyond cozy when it's over 80 degrees in my house. It's not really my optimum temperature. For one thing, the ice
in my drink's gonna melt a heck of a lot faster which
is equally unfortunately one of the major problems
for the earth as well. We're talking of course
about global sea level rise. It's really the continental ice masses that should be giving us the
greatest cause for concern. It's fairly simple,
melting of ice on places like Greenland and high
mountains, for example, will result in more water
going into the ocean. The frozen elephant in
the room is Antarctica because almost all of the
ice there is on the continent which means that when it
melts, it will add enormously to the amount of water in the ocean. Even partial melting of
Greenland and Antarctica together could result in four to six
meters or about 13 to 20 feet more water in the ocean worldwide. But it could take several
hundred years for that. People are looking at
this very, very carefully because if you think about
20 feet, that's enough that entire countries like the
Maldives which exist largely as low lying atolls in the Indian Ocean would disappear underwater. Almost any low lying area,
the Netherlands, aka Holland, for example, or New Orleans, would face serious additional flooding threats and then you add to that
things like hurricane and typhoon storm surges and
it's an enormous problem. What does this mean for
biodiversity though? Well, in the first
place, you're gonna lose these low lying places and
therefore their habitats and the species living in them. Some of these habitats are home to rare and endangered species. Apart from the actual change in sea level, what really is a major
problem for biodiversity is the warming itself. Again, remember that
every species has its own optimal habitat and tolerance ranges and that includes all
the things that go along with living in the right
temperature regime. The IPCC estimates that a
four degree celsius increase, just over seven degrees
fahrenheit is gonna result in major extinction due to the inability of organisms to adapt to the changes. It's this rate thing again. Organisms can't move to
cooler areas fast enough or adapt fast enough. Sure, some migratory animals
can change their patterns of migration a bit but
what about the organisms that can't change, what about
the ones that can't move? Entire forests come to mind,
think of mountain ranges. Forests will move further
up the mountainsides completely altering or
displacing entire ecosystems as they go and we've got
really interesting examples from some of our own
investigators here at the academy, please like Dave Kavanaugh
who studies endemic beetles specialized to live in the
icy areas high on mountains. These colder places are disappearing. The beetles are moving to
higher and higher elevations but pretty soon, they're
going to run out of mountain. Even marine ecosystems are not immune. A two degree celsius
increase in the ocean, about 3 1/2 degrees fahrenheit
doesn't sound like that much but it's a lot because we're
talking about a huge amount of extra heat over the
entire huge size of the ocean and we've been talking
about an average number. Some places are going
to be warmer than that. Some are going to be cooler
but an overall two degree celsius increase is enough to result in major coral reef die offs. Reefs just can't respond to
these rapid temperature changes fast enough nor move to other places. Even assuming that other
suitable habitat was available. Those are some of the
effects of global warming but we also need to talk about
the chemistry of adding CO2 to the world's ecosystem. There's some early evidence
that shows all the regions of the world are gonna be
affected one way or another just by the simple addition
of CO2 even if you don't talk about the global warming consequences. Studies indicate that
plant life tends to react to an increase in CO2 by
building more of themselves through that amazing
process of photosynthesis. The amount of carbon
dioxide that plants use and turn into organic
molecules for their own use is what we're talking
about in fancy terminology like sequestration and carbon fixation. It's just plants saying,
"Oh, hey, there's more carbon "dioxide, I can make more of myself." That sounds on the face
of it like a good thing. How bad could more plants actually be? In fact, sequestration and
fixation are likely reasons that we haven't already had
truly runaway global warming. But there's a limit. There's an upper level to
how much plants can collect, use or sequester carbon and thereby reduce surrounding carbon dioxide levels. That's because CO2 is
not usually the chemical that runs out first as plants
build more of themselves. It's kind of like saying well
you know I could put lots and lots of oil in my car and
it seems to be running fine. Without remembering to add
some gas every now and then, you're gonna run out of gas
and your car eventually stops even though you have lots of oil. Biodiversity in that sense
could actually decrease as the carbon dioxide levels increase because you've got unequal
abilities among plant species to sequester or absorb all
this new carbon dioxide. As that happens, biodiversity
or species' richness can drop because plants more
sensitive to the limitations of other necessary chemicals will die. Forests, marine fighter plankton and their surrounding ecosystems
become less functional as species die off and
therefore less effective in sequestering carbon dioxide causing a kind of feedback loop in which global climate change actually gets worse and worse as
the unused CO2 builds up. Think of that next time
you hear a car go by. Even something that local
can go global in a way that has huge effects
really worth thinking about. (gentle music)