(boinging)
(clicking) - Color is an important part
of visual story telling. Like tone, color is primarily used to create mood or emotion. And direct the eye by emphasizing different
parts of the image. We have a whole lesson
on the Science of Color. So check that out if you wanna know more. (clicking)
(dinging) (tinkling) In this video we'll look at a few fundamental
ways artists use color. Let's start with the Color Wheel because it allows us to identify
Visually Similar Colors, which are close to one another, Contrasting Colors
which are further apart, and Complementary Colors which are opposite each
other on the wheel. The use of contrasting colors can really direct our attention. Notice how vibrant they feel? Now compare that to these similar colors. Notice how natural and cohesive they feel, as if they belong together? Also each color on the wheel can have a different
psychological influence. For example, this shade of blue can be used to support
a calm and relaxed mood. Compared to this red, which feels much more alarming or alert! Now let's return to our concept art and look at it from the
perspective of color. - So the color in this image, which is the color script
that was used for the film, is very specific. So if we look in the background here there's a lot of blues and cold colors, especially here with Carl,
'cause he kinda feels sad. And then if you, as you push over you start to see the warm
light come in to the frame. So from the window we have like this really
bright and vibrant yellow, and then when we get to Ellie, she's almost wrapped in
a warm, reddish tone. - We decided magenta would
sort of be her color. And so even this piece tied
onto the balloon is magenta. We wanted to sort of play against the theme of darkness and coldness which is the interior of this room, everything that's surrounding her, yet she's still full of life. - The concept art as we move
forward with this moment in Up, that blue says a lot
about him emotionally. It brings him down a little bit. It helps us feel a little bit
more somber on his behalf. We connect that balloon with Carl, and with his expression, as we're kind of looking at things here. However Ellie, on a
second look at this image, we can see how optimistic she is. We can see her powers with the color are overpowering everything in the panel. Her emotion is overpowering
everything with her colors, really bringing up a spirit
of optimism and comfort and things are gonna be
okay, "Don't worry about me. "I'm going on to another adventure." - A sunset, you know a warmer light, often represents the end of something. When Carl goes home the sunset is pink. We know the pink has been the
color that represents Ellie, and the sun completely sets
and that pink color goes away. And we feel emotionally,
through the use of color, what we're supposed to
feel for the character. - For storyboarding we really
don't use color very often, unless it's a very important story point. And so one time that I did use
color was in the beach scene where I wanted to show a change in time where
he's trying really hard, is finally making some progress, but ultimately he fails. So I used the deeper reds and oranges because they make you feel, they're a little bit more passionate and a little bit more fiery. Almost like an anger or
competitive spirit that racing is. - If you look at these
images of Mr Incredible at the beginning of the film, we're talking about the golden days, you know, he's being a superhero, and his costume is represented in blue. It's pretty cool costume but it's not quite as powerful of a color. Then you go to a Mr Incredible working at Insuricare,
he's completely unhappy, the color has been
taken away from his life and from his costume. And finally when Mr Incredible
comes back as a superhero, we have a really powerful
color, this red super suit which is a lot better
than the original one. So there's a very clear progression when you look at these three pictures of, you feel emotionally how
the character is feeling and how his progression is, how his arc is in the film. - As we've seen, color is essential to our
story telling process. And so are the other
compositional elements we've explored in this lesson. All of these things work
together in our films to direct our audiences' eye, convey meaning, express emotions, and support story points. The goal of this lesson was to
open your eyes to these ideas so you can apply them to your own stories. In the final exercise you'll
work on creating a Beat Board to visualize your Story Spine
from the previous lesson. Your job is to create a
single image for each beat which captures the essential
story point of that moment. So go and have some fun.