- [Instructor] When we're
talking about major wars in colonial North America, we tend to think about
the American Revolution, not its earlier iteration,
the Seven Years' War, and I think that's a shame because the Seven Years' War
was incredibly influential not only on the American Revolution, but on the complexion of the world. Thanks to the Seven Years' War, Canada became a British country, not a French country. The Acadians moved down to Louisiana and became known as the Cajuns, and most importantly,
England became the world's preeminent empire. So if you've been
following along this far, you may have noticed two things. One, that the people who named this war seem to be very bad at math because 1754 to 1763 is nine years, not seven, and that this war seems to have two names, both the Seven Years' War and the French and Indian War, which is a name you
perhaps have heard before. Well, lemme tackle those two oddities in reverse order. So not only does the Seven
Years' War have two names, it has a whole number of names. It's called the Seven Years' War, the French and Indian War, the War of the Conquest, the Pomeranian War, the Third Silesian War, the Third Carnatic War. This is a war with a whole bunch of names, and the reason that it
has a whole bunch of names is that it was fought in
a whole bunch of places. The Seven Years' War was really the first global war, and we're talking 150
years before World War One. Aspects of the Seven Years' War, as you can kinda see from this map, were fought in Europe, in South America, the coast of Africa, in India, the Philippines, and of course, in North America. The many different names come from the many different fronts of this war, and I would say that French and Indian War is actually the name for
the North American front of this war, or theater of this war. So there are two reasons why I think Seven Years' War is a better name than French and Indian War. One is that Seven Years'
War gets at the idea that it was not just
happening in North America. It was happening all over the world, so it shows that it was a global war, but I also think Seven
Years' War is a better name than French and Indian War because I think French and Indian War is kind of confusing
because you would think that it means that the principal parties in this war were the English versus the French and the Indians, when in fact it was the English and their Indian allies versus the French and their Indian allies. Native Americans fought on
both sides of this conflict, so rather than the English and Indian versus French and Indian War, let's go with the
shorter Seven Years' War, which brings us back to
our awkward date range. So the reason that it's
called the Seven Years' War is because the English
didn't actually declare war on the French until 1756. So even though fighting
started a little bit earlier in North America, the true range of dates,
at least in legal terms, is from 1756 to 1763, or seven years. It's a complicated name
for a complicated war, but really what it came down to was England and France duking it out over who was going to be the supreme imperial power in the world, and they were concerned
about who was going to have the most territory in the world, therefore, their concern
over who was going to control North America and their competing claims here, and also access to trade. So who was going to be able
to trade with North Americans? Who was going to be able
to trade with the lucrative Indian subcontinent, and who would be the
leading power in Europe? So let's dial in a little closer on the North American theater of this war, which will have the most effect on the future United States. Alright, so here is map
of territorial claims by European powers in North America before
the Seven Years' War. Now you can see that there are some places where they overlap, which is really gonna be
the heart of the problem in this conflict. So England, shown here in red, I'm gonna outline it a bit, was, as you know from your
early American history, here along the eastern seaboard of what's today the United States, and also up into Canada. France claimed this
interior region of Canada and today of the
territorial United States, and Spain was in the mix here. Remember Spain has still
been a fairly influential colonial power in Florida and in contemporary Mexico, and also down here in
Cuba and South America. Alright, so we've got
three major European powers in the mix here in North America, England, France, and Spain, but what this map doesn't show is the American Indian powers, who are also in this area. So most of this region really west of the Appalachian mountains, is Indian country, and the majority of inhabitants
were Native Americans, and they really held the majority of power in this region as well. So major Native American
groups that are in play in this conflict are Iroquois Confederacy, and also Cherokees, Hurons, Algonquians, Abenakis, and Mi'kmaqs, and that's just a small sampling. So you can see that there are a number of important Native American tribes who are specifically
in this area of Canada, which is disputed, and also moving in the greater Appalachian region. So what does each of these groups want? Well, England definitely wants territory. They want to make sure that
they're English settlers along the eastern seaboard, whom we'll soon be calling Americans, have room to expand. The French wanna make sure that they still have access to trade with Native Americans because their main concern is fur, which is a very valuable
commodity in Europe, and Spain wants to make sure that they have access to their sugar islands and also their precious metals in the Caribbean and in South America. Now it's worth noting, 'cause I think this is really
interesting to students of American history, that all of this territory, all of North America, was way less valuable
than all of this territory because we're not talking
about just value in land. We're talking about value in commodities, and what the Caribbean had was sugar, and sugar is the most valuable crop in this time period. So a tiny island down here in the Bahamas is probably worth more to a European power than the entire interior of North America, and what do these Native
American groups want? Well, some of them want help with revenge on each other. Many other smaller Native American groups have been displaced by the Iroquois, who are here in upstate New York,
kind of Quebec region. So the Iroquois is actually expanding and really defending their claim as the largest Native American empire, but the other thing that they want is to make sure that their territory is no longer encroached upon by English settlers in particular. Now one mistake I see early students of U.S. history making is thinking that all Native Americans kind of shared a cultural and political bond, right? That they saw themselves
as one larger people who had to unite against the
encroachment of Europeans, and that was definitely not the case. Native Americans had been
living in this territory for thousands of years, and they had enemies and beef with other groups that went back way longer than the arrival
of Europeans in North America. So when nations like England and France arrived with their weapons
and their trade goods, the American Indians
didn't look at each other and say, "Oh wait, now we're all one race. "We need to join together against "the encroachment of whites." They saw England and France and Spain as possible avenues to getting one up on their older enemies. So when an English trader sold a gun to, say, a Huron, he was way more likely to go after, say, the Iroquois with that gun than he was to go after a French trader. So another reason why the Seven Years' War is a better name for the French and Indian War than French and Indian War is because these Native American groups did not ally all with France. In fact, the Iroquois and Cherokee ended up allied with England, and most of the other
Native American groups ended up allied with France, but they were fighting each other in addition to fighting England. Alright, so the stage
is set for this conflict with all of these competing groups in this unclear territory, and how this turns into a war, we'll get to in the next video.