(piano music) - [Steven] In 1970, Robert
Smithson hired several people to help him create Spiral Jetty. We're standing right in the middle, at the edge of the
Great Salt Lake in Utah. - [Beth] But we're not seeing this the way that it existed when
Smithson first created it, where it was an intersection
between the land and the very odd water
of the Great Salt Lake. - [Steven] This is a terminal basin, a huge lake that had
been largely freshwater, but there is no outlet, so the water, once it flows
here from rivers and streams, collects and then simply evaporates. Which means that the water
is dense with minerals. - [Beth] And especially with salt, very much like the Dead
Sea in the Middle East. And this is one of a handful
of these terminal basins that exist in the world. - [Steven] Almost nothing can live here. There are a few fish that live
at the outlet of some of the freshwater rivers, and-- - [Beth] And there are brine shrimp, and algae, in fact there's
a particular kind of algae that makes the water turn pinkish-red, and that was true when
Smithson created Spiral Jetty. But today as we look out
at the lake, it's blue. - [Steven] With help
from the Dawn Gallery, which represented him,
Smithson was able to bring a front-loader and dump trucks, a tractor, to help move these basalt stones and sand and some soil into place. - [Beth] By creating a spiral, Smithson created lots of opportunities where the land and the water
could meet one another. - [Steven] But right now, because the American West is
in the midst of a drought, the water has receded and is at a great distance
from this earthwork. - [Beth] So, instead of the water filling the spaces in between the spiral, we have sand. So this was very much
meant to be a work of art that changed, based on natural principles. - [Steven] Smithson was
interested in the idea of entropy, the idea of the way things break down. And his intervention in
this natural landscape, it's an expression of the way in which artists thought about the
landscape for many years. - [Beth] We could go back to artists like Caspar David Friedrich, who thought about the overwhelming
size and power of nature and the smallness of man, and that's certainly
one of the themes here, for me, as we stand here. But we could also think
about the importance of the vastness of the American landscape in 19th-century American painting, or even its importance to
the Abstract Expressionists in the 1950s. - [Steven] We can go even further back and look at the artwork
of indigenous peoples in the Americas, long before
the Europeans arrived, the geoglyphs, better
known as the Nazca Lines, in Peru, in South America, or the earthworks that come out of the Fort Ancient culture in North America. And in fact, the very
shape of Spiral Jetty is a form that has shown up in petroglyphs throughout the American West. - [Beth] And it's a form
that appears in nature, quite frequently. - [Steven] One of the anecdotes that Smithson was apparently aware of was the centuries-old idea that the Great Salt Lake
contained a whirlpool that somehow connected
it to the Pacific Ocean. So the idea of a spiral or whirlpool is active even in these
stories that predate Smithson. But this is also a sculpture that is rooted in the 20th century, in an industrial culture. 1970 was the year of the first Earth Day, and that signaled an
important early moment in the environmental movement. The idea of the ruination that
man was visiting on nature is clearly informing work like this. - [Beth] And Earth Day
being this time when we reflect on environmental issues, but the relationship between
the growing industrial nature of the United States and the amazingly beautiful,
vast, virgin landscape that was here when Europeans arrived, is a theme throughout
19th-century American painting. And as we stand here, we see mountains, we see the basalt that's formed from a volcano. So we have a very powerful
sense of the passage of time that I think was very
interesting to Smithson. By putting art outside in the world it becomes part of the process of nature. It can't be conserved. - [Steven] In 1970, this
was still a radical idea, the idea of taking art off the wall, bringing it outside, outside
of the confines of a home or a museum. - [Beth] And thereby
outside of the commercial, of a work that could be bought and sold. - [Steven] Smithson was interested in creating a porous relationship between that more controlled
gallery experience and the experience of art in the world. So can a work like this
also exist in Manhattan? Can it also exist in a gallery? - [Beth] Well, we did drive two hours from Salt Lake City. So one does have to make
an intentional pilgrimage to see this. We're really in the middle of a vast, empty space in the American West. - [Steven] And yet this artwork was not conceived of
as existing only here. - [Beth] There's a video, there are aerial photographs. And so, like many works of
art in the 1960s and '70s that were ephemeral, they exist through their documentation. Although this still exists here also. - [Steven] And I have to say, I wouldn't feel as if experienced
this work of art fully had I not come out here. - [Beth] Standing here
looking at Spiral Jetty and being really aware
of how different it is than when Smithson created it in 1970 really makes me think about museums as places where we entrust works of art. We lock them away from time, we conserve them and
create special conditions to stop time from hurting them. But here Smithson creates something that time is supposed to change. - [Steven] Museums in a sense
try to do the impossible, which raises a really
interesting question: what do we do with the
significant work of art that was intended to change over time? This work of art and
the land that it sits on came under the control of
the Dia Art Foundation. What does an institution like Dia do with something like this? Does it try to protect it? Does it allow natural
and industrial forces to play with the landscape around it? And so what Dia did is, in concert with the Getty
Conservation Institute, is to make the decision to
regularly document this object. - [Beth] You mentioned
this idea of entropy, which was so important to Smithson, this idea that the tendency of all things, according to the laws of physics, is to move from order
to disorder, to chaos. And I think we have that sense
of things coming apart here. - [Steven] So Smithson is
imposing a geometric order into this natural landscape, into this vast space
that is in the process, over millions of years, of disassembling. Here, more specifically, we can see the way his intervention
is slowly coming apart. - [Beth] And I think that sense that over millions of years
this will come apart makes us aware of the
brevity of our own lifespans in the grandeur of time. (waves lapping)