Let's connect the
switches to the motors. The way we're going
to do that is we're going to take a piece
of this blue wire, and we're going to strip off
just a little bit at the end. And we'll loop the
wire through the switch and take our needle nose
pliers and crimp it. Like that. And then we can take the
other end of the wire, and we're going to run it
through this part of the motor, right here. And so to do that, we'll
trim off some of the wire. And then we'll take our
strippers and cut off the end. We're going to do the exact
same thing on the other side. And let's heat up
our connections. There we go. You want to make sure that
solder flows completely over the connection. All right, so we have all
our connections there. Let's double check our switches. Good, switches still work. Again, because if we
hold the soldering iron against the switch too long,
it can overheat the switch and cause it to not work. So we want to make sure
that we didn't do that. OK, so we've got
our motors in place. Now let's take our
next connection. And let's make our next
connection a green wire. So we'll take this
guy, and we're going to connect these
two motors together. So we'll do that by
running it through with one end of the wire. And then the other one, we're
going to let the wire stick out a little further
because we're going to want to tie
another wire to it. So we'll just go like
this There we go. So we've got a
lot of extra wire. So now our green wire is there
and in place, ready to go. Ready for some solder. But before we solder
it, we're going to make another
connection to it. And so the next connection
we're going to make is, we're going to
connect a yellow wire to the green wire on
this side right here. And it needs to be
about two inches long, maybe a little shorter. So we'll take these two wires,
and we'll twist them together. Like that. And we can trim off
the excess there, we only need it--
together like that. And then this wire
is going to connect to a switch that goes here. It's going to connect to
one of these switches. We've already bent one of those
single pull-- one of those throws out of the
way, because we only need a single pull
and a single throw. So we're going to connect here. And the way you can bend those,
in case you were wondering, is you just take your needle
nose and grab the throw. And just bend it
right out of the way. Now, make sure you only
bend the one on the ends. Don't bend the
one in the middle, because you need the
one in the middle. So we're going to
connect to that. And let's put the
switch in place first. So put a blob of hot glue there. And you want to push the
switch down on the hot glue. But make sure not to cover
up the switch mechanism so it can still
slide back and forth. And also don't to cover
up the little single pulls or throws there. OK, so we want to
make it-- it's going to need to be about this long. Let's go ahead and solder
these connections here. So we'll solder
these connections since they're
already ready to go. Tin my tip. There we go. Our wire. And we'll strip off just
a little bit on the end. And we can bend this wire
around in a loop, like this. Like that. And then connect
it to our switch. OK. There we go. Now those wires don't like
to stay in that location very well. So now I'm going to take the
other side of the yellow wire, and I'm going to strip off
some insulation on the end, right here. I'm going to make another loop. And I'm going to try and
connect that to the other side. Now, it looks like the
hot glue has come loose, and that happens
from time to time. So if that happened, that's OK. So when you put the wire
in through the pull, one thing that can help
sort of hold it in place is to bend it just a little
bit, so that it kind of crimps the wire and holds
the wire in place. It's really hard to make sure
that these two connections do not touch, but
it's really important. Because if they touch, then
this switch won't work. OK. So that one fell
out, but that's OK. We can put it back in. All right, so now we have
our switch connected. And this part, I
think, I'm actually going to use the
third arm to hold, because it's really
hard to grab it. And we'll hot glue
it back in a minute. You can see these wires
just love to pop right out. OK, so we've got a good
physical connection. Now let's make our
connection with the solder. So we're going to tin the tip
again, just a little bit there. Clean off the excess
and make our connection. In that case, I got solder
on the soldering iron but not on the metal. So I need to heat the
metal a little bit more. There we go. So, see, those two need
to be completely separate. So now we can actually put
a lot more hot glue on it and make sure that
it stays in place. So we'll put just a little
bit of hot glue behind it-- or underneath it, I
should say, like that. And this is a place
where you really got to be careful, because
it does want to move around. So, just hold it. Hold it on the top like that. Make sure you don't get
any hot glue on your hands. So once you've got that in
place, then what you can do is you can come back
in and you can actually hot glue this
whole area in here. And that will provide a
lot more holding power. It'll keep the switch
in place and also help to make sure that those
two yellow wires do not touch when they're
not supposed to.