So in a hydration
reaction, water is added across a double bond. And the OH adds in
a Markovnikov way. So according to
Markovnikov's rule. So let's go ahead and
write that down here. So you have to think
about Markovnikov when you're doing this reaction. And this is an acid
catalyzed reaction. So technically, this
reactions is at equilibrium, and we will cover that at the
very end of the video here. So let's look at the mechanism
for the acid catalyzed addition of water across a double bond. So here I have my alkene,
and I have water present with sulfuric acid. So sulfuric acid,
being a strong acid, will donate a
proton in solution. And let's say the water
molecule picks up that proton. So H2O would go to H3O+. 3 So I'm just jumping ahead
to the H3O+ ion called the hydronium ion. So here's my H3O+ ion. So put my one pair of
electrons on there, and it's positively charged. So what's going to happen
is the pi electrons, the electrons in
this pi bond here are going to function as a base. They're going to
abstract a proton. They're going to
accept a proton. They're going to take, let's
say, this proton right here, which would cause these
two electrons in this bond to kick off onto your oxygen. So acid base equilibrium. So I'll go ahead and make this
an equilibrium arrow here. And what are we going
to get if that happens? Well, let's say that
the proton added to the carbon on the right-- so
the proton added to the carbon on the right here. So I'm saying that the
blue electrons on the left are going to be these electrons
right here, like that. And that would mean
that I took a bond away from the carbon on the left. This carbon over here on the
left, this carbon right here, used to have four bonds to it. Now it has only
three bonds to it. So it ends up with a
plus 1 formal charge. So we have a carbocation
in our mechanism. So what's left? In this acid base reaction, we
took a proton away from H3O+, which leaves us H2O. So here we have H2O
over here, so I'll go ahead and put lone
pairs of electrons in on our water molecule. And we know that water can
act as a nucleophile here. So this lone pair
of electrons is going to be attracted
to something that's positively charged. So nucleophilic attack
on our carbocation. And this is technically
at equilibrium as well, depending on the concentrations
of your reactants. So let's go ahead and
show that water molecule adding on to the
carbon on the left. So the carbon on
the right already had a hydrogen or
proton added onto it, and the carbon on
the left is going to have an oxygen now
bonded to that carbon. Two hydrogens bonded
to that oxygen, and there was a lone pair of
electrons on that oxygen that did not participate in
any kind of bonding. This gives this oxygen right
here a plus 1 formal charge. So our oxygen is now
positively charged, like that. And we're almost to our product. So we're almost there. We need one more
acid base reaction to get rid of that
proton on our oxygen. So water can function
as a base this time. So water comes along,
and this time it's going to act as a Bronsted
Lowry base and accept a proton. So let's get those
electrons in there. So this lone pair
of electrons, let's say it takes that proton,
leaving these electrons behind on my oxygen. Once again, I'll draw my
equilibrium arrows here, acid base reaction. And I'm going to end up with an
OH on the carbon on the left, and the carbon on the right
there is a hydrogen, like that. So I added water. I ended up adding water
across my double bond. And to be complete, this would
regenerate my hydronium ion. I'd get H2O plus H+
would give me H3O+. So hydronium is regenerated. And so there you go. So remember, a
carbocation is present, so you have to think about
Markovnikov addition. And since a
carbocation is present, you have to think about
possible rearrangements. So Markovnikov and
rearrangements. Let's take a look
at an example where you have a rearrangement here. So let's look at a reaction. So let's look at this
as our starting alkene. And let's go ahead and
think about the mechanisms. So we know H3O+ is
going to be present. So H3O+ right here. So we're adding our
alkene to a solution of water and sulfuric acid. And our first step in the
mechanism, the pi electrons are going to function as
a base and take a proton from our hydronium ion, leaving
these electrons in here letting them kick back off
onto the oxygen. So let's see what we would have
from that acid base reaction. And I realize I didn't draw
an equilibrium arrow here. I'm more concerned with
getting the right product. So this is our carbon skeleton. And which side do
we add the hydrogen? Which side of the
double bond-- do we add the proton to the
left side, or do we add the proton to
the right side? Well, we want to form the most
stable carbocation we possibly can. And if we add the proton to the
left side of our double bond, we end up with a
secondary carbocation. This carbocation right
here is secondary, because this carbon that
has the positive charge is bonded to two other carbons. So this is a
secondary carbocation. If we had added the proton
on to the other side of the double bond, would
have a primary carbocation. So secondary carbocation
is more stable. But can we form something
that's even more stable than a
secondary carbocation? Of course we can. We can form a
tertiary carbocation if we think about the
possibility of a hydride shift. So right here
there is a hydrogen attached to that carbon. And if the proton and
these two electrons are going to move
over here and form a new bond with our
positively charged carbon, so we get a hydride
shift at this point. So let's draw what would
result from that hydride shift. We moved a hydrogen over here. That took a bond away
from this carbon. So that is the
carbon that's going to end up with the
positive charge now. We added a bond to what used
to be our secondary carbocation carbon. And so that formal
charge goes away. The formal charge moves to
this carbon right here, which is now a tertiary carbocation. If you look at the carbons
connected to that carbon, this is a tertiary carbocation. So we know tertiary carbocations
are more stable than secondary. So now we're at the
step of the mechanism where a water molecule
is going to come along. So we have a water
molecule, which is going to function
as a nucleophile and attack our positively
charged carbon, like that. So let's go ahead and
draw what the result of that nucleophilic
attack would look like. So we have our carbon skeleton,
and we have an oxygen atom now bonded to that carbon. So two hydrogens
here, and once again, one lone pair of electrons now
participate in that reaction, giving this oxygen a
plus 1 formal charge. And then finally, instead
of showing the last step, a water molecule
comes along, takes one of the protons off of
our positively charged oxygen and gives us our major
product with the OH adding on to this carbon right here. So this is a major product. This is our major product. And we would get some
of the alcohol that forms from the
secondary carbocation. So a minor product,
that's what we would get if this
oxygen had attacked our secondary carbocation. And you will get some of that. OK. But if your test asks
for the major product, you should show the product
of this rearrangement. Now, we're lucky
in this instance because our product here,
this carbon right here, ends up not being
a chirality center. Because I have two methyl
groups attached to that carbon, so I don't have to worry
about my stereochemistry here. Let's do a reaction
where we do have to worry about stereochemistry. OK. So let's look at this
reaction right here. So we take this as
our starting alkene. So I'll put the double
bond right there. And let's make that a
little bit more clear here. So the double bond is between
these two carbons right here. And once again, we're going to
add water and sulfuric acid. So H2SO4. And when we think
about the mechanism, we know that we're going
to add a proton to one side of the double bond and the
other side of the double bond is going to end up
being our carbocation. So the first thing
to think about is OK, which one
of these two sides is going to get the proton. We want to form the most
stable carbocation we can. So the proton's going to add
on to the carbon on the left. So if I can go ahead and
show the intermediate here. So for an intermediate--
don't need that arrow. We'll just go ahead and
show the proton adding on to the carbon on the left. So we get an H here. And then the carbon on the
right of the double bond now ends up being
our carbocation. So this is now positively
charged, like that. And remember, when we
have a carbocation, this carbon is bonded
to three other atoms. You have to think about
what that looks like. So remember, a
carbocation-- when something is bonded to
three other carbons, you get this situation
where everything is in the same plane. Sp2 hybridized carbon exhibits
trigonal planar geometry. Also with your unhybridized
p orbital, like that. So this is your sp2 hybridized
carbocation situation here. So when your water molecule
comes along and acts as a nucleophile,
your water molecule could end up attacking
from the top here. Or it could end up
attacking from below here. So that's where the
stereochemistry comes in. So let's go ahead and
take our carbocation and let's see if we can draw
the products that would result from our nucleophilic
attack of water. And then we'll just go ahead
and think about the proton going away in our heads
for the mechanism. So when you have
enough practice, you can do steps of the
mechanism in your head. So let's see. What would we get for our
two possible products? Well, the OH could've
added this way, which would push that methyl
group there away from us. So the methyl group would
be going away from us. Or the OH could've added
from the opposite side. The OH could've been
the one back here, and that would've pushed the
methyl group out like this. OK. And we know that these
are chirality centers. We know that this is our
chirality center on these guys. So we get enantiomers here. 50% racemic mixture
for our products. And we see that the OH adds
on in a Markovnikov fashion. It adds on to the side that's
the most stable carbocation here. So one more thing
about this reaction. So let's just do
one that doesn't have any stereochemistry
to worry about. And we'll try to make
a different point about this reaction here. So this is our reaction. So we're going to
add water to this. And we'll put
sulfuric acid up here. And we'll make our
arrow a little bit different to illustrate
the point here. So we could go-- let's go ahead
and draw an equilibrium arrow here. So let's say this whole
reaction is at equilibrium. So let me get this
equilibrium arrow in here. And our product. So if we don't have to
worry about stereochemistry, we think OK, really
all I have to do is think about which side of
the double bond do I put my OH. And again, It's
Markovnikov addition. The more substituted
carbon is the one that's going to get your OH. So the more substituted
carbon would be the one on the left here. So if you were a
product, you would say OK, I know all I have to
do is really just go ahead and put my OH in there on
the more substituted carbon and I'm done. I don't have to worry
about stereochemistry for this reaction. I don't have to worry
about rearrangement, since it's the
tertiary carbocation. So that takes care of it. Now, this reaction is
technically at equilibrium. And you could think about water
as being one of your reactants. So if water is one
of your reactants and you think about general
chemistry, Le Chatelier's principle, how do you
shift in equilibrium? If you want to make
more of your product, if you wanted to
make more of this, your product or your
alcohol, one way to do it would be to increase the
concentration of water. So if you increase the
concentration of water, the equilibrium will
shift to decrease the stress that was
put on the system. So you're going to get
a shift to the right, and you're going to form more
and more of your product here. But remember, if you have
an alcohol for a product, and if you react this alcohol
with sulfuric acid, that's an E1 elimination reaction
that we saw in earlier videos. So acid catalyzed
dehydration, the addition of concentrated sulfuric
acid to your alcohol can actually form your alkene. So that's a reaction
that we saw earlier, an E1 elimination acid
catalyzed dehydration. Which your major product
would be your most substituted alkene here. So you could go
back the other way. You could go back to the left. Let's say you decreased
the concentration of water to shift the
equilibrium to the left, and you'd actually
form your alkene here. So the way to control
your equilibrium is if you want to
go to the right, you just dilute
your sulfuric acid. You add more water
to it, which would increase this concentration. If you want to shift the
equilibrium to the left, you decrease your
concentration of water, which means using
concentrated sulfuric acid. So I could just write
concentrated sulfuric acid here. And that would shift your
equilibrium to the left and make more of your alkene. So it all depends on what
you're trying to make. And so you have to remember
all that general chemistry, shifting equilibrium stuff.