- Hey. My name is Eben Ostby. I've been working at
Pixar since we were just half a dozen people working
on experimental short films. One thing that hasn't changed since then is the need for virtual cameras. And to understand virtual cameras, you need a firm grasp of
how physical cameras work. And I love cameras. In fact, I collect and fix
and sometimes even build them. I built this in a CAD system. And printed it out with 3D
printing and it takes pictures. (camera clicks) Like that. And cameras come in all shapes and sizes, like this little, baby twin-lens. And this Classic American
Argus. (camera clicks) So at Pixar, when we
design a virtual camera our job is model what happens
inside physical cameras. Have you ever thought about
what a camera really does when we take a picture? (camera clicks) You probably know that
a camera captures light on a piece of film or image sensor. But to understand how this works, let's build a very simple camera. We'll start with a box.
This is our camera body. And a single piece of paper, which represents our image sensor or film. We'll call this the "image plane." You know what? Let's do this at a larger scale, like using an office as our box. Our scene is now outside the window. And our image plane is the opposite wall. We don't see a clear image. The problem is any
point on our image plane is getting hit by light from
everywhere in the scene. What we want is for each
point on our image plane to be hit by light from a
tiny region of the scene. Look at what happens if
we cover up the window except for a little hole. We call this small hole the
"aperture" of our camera. If you wait a few minutes for
your eyes to adjust, voila. An image. The reason it works,
is because the aperture only lets certain light rays through. At this point, here, on the image plane, only light rays from one direction can make it through the aperture. And those light rays come
from light bouncing off this place in the scene. So the aperture is
filtering out any light rays that don't come from the right direction. This simple camera design is
known as a "pinhole camera." If we replace the back wall of the room with a great big sheet
of photographic film, we could take a great picture that way. Did you know that the word camera comes from the Latin word for room? The first cameras were
known as "camera obscura" meaning "darkened room." They were in fact,
room-sized like our office. In the next exercise, you can
use this pinhole simulator to take some virtual pictures. You can adjust the size of
your pinhole, or aperture, and press here to capture
an image. (camera clicks) While doing so, you'll have
to answer some questions about what's going on. Such as, why is the image flipped? And more importantly, what happens if we change
the size of our aperture? (camera snaps) See you in a moment.