- [Voiceover] Let f of x
equal three to the negative x minus five, and g of x equals
negative x to the third minus four x-squared plus x plus six. The graphs of y equals f
of x and y equals g of x are shown below, and we
see them right over here. This y equals f of x is
in that purplish color. Let me see if I can get
that same purplish color. So, that is, in that. So, let me underline it now. So, f of x is in that purplish color. So y equal f of x, that's
right over here in purple. And then y equals g of x, that is in blue. So y equals g of x. g of x is defined right over there. y equals g of x, well that
is graphed in the blue. And we see that they intersect at the point a comma b. So there's a couple of
ways to think about this. We could say that when x is equal to a, f of x and g of x equal each other. Or, we could say, f of a, and this is coming from
this point of intersection. Let me draw a little arrow here. Or a big arrow. That point of intersection lets us know that f of a, f of a is equal to g of a. Is equal to g of a, which is equal to b. g of a, which is equal to b. They both, if you input
a into the function f you're going to get b. If you input a into the function g, you're going to get b. And so the point a comma
b is on both graphs. Both y equals g of x and y equals f of x. And so from here, you could make some interesting statements. For example, you could just
say, well, what is f of a? f of a is 3 to the negative a power minus five, is going to be equal to, what's g of a? g of a is negative a to the third minus four a-squared plus a plus six, so you could say this. And that would be equal to that. Either of those would be equal to b. Alright, I think we've
analyzed that a good bit, so now let's actually
answer their questions. And normally I'd suggest
you look at the questions before you actually try to solve it, but I just wanted to do this
just to really squeeze out as much as we could out of
the information they gave us. So they tell us the value
x equals a is the solution to which of the following equations? Select all that apply. So this first one is three
to the negative x minus five is equal to b. Well, we already know that, we already know that three
to the negative a minus five, Three to the negative a minus is going to be equal to b. Is going to be equal to b. This over here, this is
equivalent to saying, this is equivalent to saying f of x, f of x is equal to b. And we know f of x
equals B when x equals a. When x equals a, f of x is equal to b. This expression is equal to b. So we know that that first one is true. Now the second one is just saying, f of x is equal to g of x. Well, we know that when x is equal to a, f of x is equal to g of x. That f of a is equal to g of a. Because, as a reminder,
this right over here is our definition for f of x, and this over here is
our definition of g of x. So this is just saying
f of x equals g of x, when does that happen? Well, that happens when x equals a. We already saw it up here. f of a is equal to g of a. They both equal b. And so both of these are going to be equal to each other when x is equal to A. So I will check that one as well.