- [Instructor] Let's say the HA represents a generic weak acid and B represents a generic weak base. If our weak acid donates
a proton to our weak base, that would form A minus and HB plus. To identify conjugate acid base pairs remember there's only one
proton or one H plus difference between an acid and it's conjugate base. So when HA donates its proton
and turns into A minus, A minus must be the conjugate base to HA. So there's one H plus difference
between HA and A minus. They are a conjugate acid base pair. When B accepts a proton, it turns into HB plus
therefore HB plus must be the conjugate acid to B. Since there's one H plus
difference between B and HB plus, they are a conjugate acid base pair. Let's look at the situation
where the equilibrium constant for this reaction is greater than one. If K is greater than one, that
means that at equilibrium, there are more products than reactants therefore, the equilibrium
favors the formation of the products. For acid-base reactions the equilibrium always favors the side
with the weaker acid and the weaker base. Therefore, since the
equilibrium favors the products, the weaker acid and the weaker base, are on the product side and the stronger acid
and the stronger base are on the reactant side. So when comparing our two acids, HA and HB plus, HA is the
stronger acid of the two. And when comparing our
two bases B and A minus, B is the stronger base of the two. When the equilibrium
constant is less than one that means at equilibrium, there are more reactants
than there are products. Therefore, this time, the equilibrium favors the
formation of the reactants. And the equilibrium always favors the side with the weaker acid and the weaker base. Since the equilibrium
favors the reactants, the weaker acid and the weaker base, are on the reactant side and the stronger acid
and the stronger base are on the product side. So comparing our two acids, HA and HB plus this time, HB plus is the
stronger acid of the two and for our bases B and A minus this time, A minus is the
stronger base of the two. Let's look at an example of a
weak acid, weak base reaction. The Hydrogen Sulfate anion we'll react with the Carbonate anion to form the Sulfate anion and the Hydrogen Carbonate anion. Looking at the reaction,
the Hydrogen Sulfate anion is donating its proton
so that must be the acid and the Carbonate anion
is accepting a proton so that must be the base. After the Hydrogen Sulfate
anion donates it's proton it turns into the Sulfate
anion, SO four, two minus. Therefore the Sulfate anion
must be the conjugate base to HSO four minus. So one conjugate acid base
pair is HSO four minus and SO four, two minus. And when the Carbonate anion
and accepts the proton, it turns into the
Hydrogen Carbonate anion. Therefore the Hydrogen Carbonate anion, must be the conjugate acid
to the Carbonate anion. So our other conjugate acid-base pair consists of the Carbonate anion, and the Hydrogen Carbonate anion. The equilibrium constant for this reaction at 25 degrees Celsius is greater than one, therefore the equilibrium favors the formation of the products. And because the equilibrium favors the formation of the weaker
acid and the weaker base, we know that the weaker
acid and the weaker base must be on the product side and the stronger acid
and the stronger base are on the reactant side. Therefore the Hydrogen Sulfate
anion is a stronger acid than the Hydrogen Carbonate anion, and the Carbonate anion
in as a stronger base than the Sulfate anion. Let's look at another example of a weak acid, weak base reaction. In this case, Hydrofluoric acid reacts with Ammonia to form the Ammonium ion an NH four plus, and the Fluoride anion, F minus. Because Hydrofluoric acid
donates a proton, it's an acid and because Ammonia accepts a proton Ammonia functions as a base. And when HF donates a proton, it turns into F minus the Fluoride anion, therefore the Fluoride anion
is the conjugate base to HF. And when Ammonia accepts a proton, it turns into NH four
Plus the Ammonium ion, therefore the Ammonium
ion is the conjugate acid to NH three. Let's say that we mix equal
moles of our weak acid HF with our weak base NH three and our goal is to figure
out if the resulting solution is acidic, basic or neutral. First, we need to determine
if the reactants or products are favored at equilibrium. And to help us determine that here we have the Ka and Kb values for our acids and bases. So here's the Ka value
for Hydrofluoric acid at 25 degrees Celsius, so all of these are at 25 degrees Celsius. Here's the Kb value for Ammonia, the Ka value for the Ammonium ion and the Kb value for the Fluoride anion. So looking at our two acids
that was Hydrofluoric acid and the Ammonium cation, the Ka for Hydrofluoric
acid is a higher value than the Ka for the Ammonium cation. Therefore Hydrofluoric acid
is the stronger of the two, the stronger acid of the two. And for the two bases, we have Ammonia and we also
have the Fluoride anion, looking at the Kb values, for Ammonia the Kb value is higher than the Kb value for the Fluoride anion, therefore Ammonia is the
stronger base of the two. So we have the stronger
acid and the stronger base on the reactant side and the weaker acid and the weaker base on the product side. We know the equilibrium favors the side with the weaker acid and the weaker base. Therefore the equilibrium favors the formation of the products. So we could go ahead and
write the equilibrium constant for this reaction is greater than one. And at equilibrium we're going to have more of our products than we do of our reactants. So to determine at the solution
as acidic, basic or neutral, we have to think about the Ammonium cation and the Fluoride anion
in aqueous solution. Since the Ka value for the Ammonium cation is greater than the Kb value
for the Fluoride anion, the Ammonium cation is better
at producing Hydronium ions in aqueous solution than the Fluoride anion is
at producing Hydroxide anions in aqueous solution. So the concentration of Hydronium ions will be greater than the
concentration of Hydroxide anions and therefore the resulting
solution will be acidic.