- [Instructor] Electrolytic cells use an electric current to drive a thermodynamically unfavorable reaction. Before we look at a diagram
of electrolytic cell, let's look at the half reactions that will occur in the cell. In one half reaction, liquid sodium ions react with an electron to
form liquid sodium metal. Because the liquid sodium
ion is gaining an electron, this represents the
reduction half reaction. The other way to tell
that this is a reduction half reaction is to
assign oxidation numbers. Liquid sodium ions have
an oxidation number of plus one and liquid sodium metal has an oxidation number of zero. So going from plus one to zero is a decrease or a reduction
in the oxidation number. Therefore, liquid sodium ions are reduced to form liquid sodium metal
in this half reaction. In our next unbalanced half reaction, liquid chloride anions
turn into chlorine gas. If we assign oxidation numbers, liquid chloride anions have a
oxidation number of minus one, and chlorine gas has an
oxidation number of zero. So going from minus one to zero is an increase in the oxidation number. Therefore, the liquid chloride anions are oxidized to chlorine gas. So this is the oxidation half reaction, and we need to balance it. Since we have two chlorines on the right, we need to put two as a coefficient in front of the chloride
anions on the left. Loss of electrons is oxidation. And since we're oxidizing
two chloride anions, we're going to lose two electrons. As a quick reminder, one way to remember that loss of electrons is oxidation and gain of electrons is reduction is to think about LEO the lion goes GER. So loss of electrons is oxidation and gain of electrons is reduction. Next let's add our two
half reactions together to get the overall redox reaction. And before we do that, we have to make sure
the number of electrons are equal in both half reactions. Since we have two electrons in the oxidation half reaction and only one electron in
the reduction half reaction, we need to multiply everything in our reduction half
reaction through by two. So that'd be two liquid sodium ions, two electrons, and two liquid sodiums. When we add the two
half reactions together, the two electrons cancel out and we get two liquid sodium cations plus two liquid chloride anions goes to two liquid
sodiums and chlorine gas. So if we had some molten sodium chloride, we could form sodium and chlorine gas. However, delta G naught for this reaction is greater than zero, which means this reaction is thermodynamically unfavorable. So in order for this reaction to occur, we need some sort of a power source to provide an electric current, to drive this thermodynamically
unfavorable reaction. Here's a diagram showing
our electrolytic cell for the electrolysis of
molten sodium chloride, and let's start with the power source. So the negative terminal
of the power source is where the electrons come from. So imagine we have electrons
moving in this wire toward the inert electrode on the right. Inert means the electrodes aren't going to participate
in this reaction. For example, the electrode could be a piece of platinum metal, which is very unreactive. At the surface of the electrode, the electrons reduce
the liquid sodium ions into liquid sodium. Therefore, liquid sodium
will form at this electrode. The melting point of sodium chloride is higher than the
melting point of sodium. Therefore, at this high temperature sodium will remain a liquid. Eventually when the
liquid sodium cools down, you would have some solid sodium metal because reduction is occurring at the electrode on the right, the electrode on the
right must be the cathode. Next, let's think about the other inert electrode on the left. At this electrode,
oxidation is taking place because liquid chloride anions are turning into chlorine gas. So we would see bubbles of chlorine gas at this electrode. And as the liquid chloride
anions are oxidized, that's loss of electrons. So the electrons would
flow through this wire back toward the positive
terminal of the power source. Since oxidation is occurring at the inert electrode on the left, this electrode must be the anode. As a quick review,
remember that a good way to remember this is to
think about an ox and a cat. So oxidation occurs at the anode. That's an ox. And reduction occurs at the cathode. That's a red cat. And as a quick summary, this diagram shows the electrolytic cell for the electrolysis of
molten sodium chloride to form liquid sodium and chlorine gas. Let's look at another example
of an electrolytic cell. This electrolytic cell shows the process of electroplating. So let's say you have
a pendant made of steel and you do some engraving on it. I do a lot of engraving. And so I drew a little picture of some flowers on this steel pendant, however, steel rusts pretty easily. So if we want to protect the engraving, we could electroplate it and put a thin layer of
nickel on top of the steel. So electroplating uses electrolysis to plate one metal onto another metal, either to protect against
rust or corrosion, or if you want to plate silver or gold onto another metal to
make it more beautiful. So for this electrolytic cell, we have a steel electrode on the right and a nickel electrode on the left. And we have an aqueous
solution of nickel sulfate. We know that electrons come from the negative terminal
of the power source. So imagine that electrons move in the wire toward the steel electrode on the right. When the nickel two
plus ion is in solution come in contact with the electrons at the surface of the steel electrode, reduction takes place. So reduction takes place at the cathode and for the half reaction, it'd be nickel two
plus, plus two electrons turns into solid nickel. So a thin layer of nickel is now plated on the steel object. The electrode on the left
is a piece of solid nickel. And when solid nickel is oxidized, it turns into nickel two plus ions. When solid nickel turns into nickel two plus ions in solution, two electrons are lost. And so we can think about electrons moving in this wire back toward the positive terminal of the power source. So for the oxidation half reaction, solid nickel turns into
nickel two plus ions, and two electrons are lost. And because oxidation occurs at the anode, the nickel electrode is the anode for this electrolytic cell. Let's look at a quick summary
for an electrolytic cell. In an electrolytic cell, the redox reaction is
thermodynamically unfavorable. Because the redox reaction is thermodynamically unfavorable, an electrolytic cell requires a power source to supply a current to drive the unfavorable redox reaction. Oxidation occurs at the anode and reduction occurs at the cathode. And finally, an electrolytic cell is used for electroplating where a thin layer of one metal is plated onto another metal.