- [Instructor] When Christopher Columbus first arrived in the Americas, he had no way of knowing that he had set off a complex chain of events that would lead to everything from humanity's largest
demographic disaster, to the founding of a new
nation nearly 300 years later, to you watching a video about the history of that nation right at this very moment. It's strange, right? Columbus's voyages to the New World and those of the navigators and
settlers who came after him, changed the worlds to an extent rarely seen in human history. Let's briefly review the effects of these transatlantic voyages on Europe, Africa, and the Americas
between 1492 and 1607, the period between first contact and the establishment
of the first permanent English settlement in the
Americas at Jamestown. So you might call this the pre-British era of colonization in the Americas. So what changes did these voyages cause? Well, there were demographic changes, and by demographic I mean shifts in the structure of populations. The indigenous populations of the Americas faced a catastrophic decline in numbers as a result of diseases
carried by Europeans. On the flip side, the
populations of Africa and Europe grew with the introduction
of nutritious foods found in the Americas
like potatoes and corn. Contact also led to the
creation of new cultural groups, as indigenous people,
Europeans, and Africans mixed in the New World
and had children together. The transatlantic voyages
also led to economic changes, including shifts in the
systems of money and labor. Spain extracted gold and silver
from the New World by force, compelling indigenous
people and then later enslaved Africans to labor in mines. These riches flooded into Europe and caused a huge increase in prices, which may have led to the development of banking and capitalism there. And European demand for
laborers in New World mines and plantations led to the
expansion of the slave trade, resulting in the forced migration of millions of African
people to the Americas. Columbus's discovery also fostered political changes in
Europe and the New World, as other European countries wanted to claim colonies of their own. And the power structure
among indigenous nations changed, too, with the
addition of European allies and the destruction of large
portions of the population, leading to the downfall of
powerful empires like the Aztecs. The cultures of indigenous people changed, as Europeans introduced new material goods and animals into their environment. For example, the Spanish
brought horses to North America, changing the society of plains people, who could now hunt and follow
herds of bison on horseback. And new religious practices
also emerged in the Americas, as indigenous peoples
combined their own beliefs with those of Catholicism. By examining the effects
of transatlantic voyages, what we're really doing is practicing the skill of causation. This is probably the most important skill in the historian's toolbox. Understanding and arguing about what caused an event to happen, or what consequences an event
had on society later on. Now this seems pretty straightforward. For example, a cause and
effect statement might be, I slept through my alarm this
morning, so I missed the bus. Cause: oversleeping. Effect: missed bus. Notice that the effect has
to happen after the cause. Missing the bus didn't
cause me to oversleep. So until we invent the time machine, effects must happen later than causes. But there can be a few
pitfalls to watch out for when we try to determine
causes and effects. First, not everything has
just one cause and one effect. For example, maybe I
slept through my alarm because I stayed up too
late last night watching TV. That's another cause for missing the bus. And there could be more than one effect of sleeping through the alarm, not just missing the bus, but also missing my test in first period. Which was the most important
cause of missing the bus, oversleeping or watching too much TV? And which was the more important effect of sleeping through my alarm, missing the bus or missing the test? These kinds of questions are
what historians argue about. Which was the most important
cause of Atlantic exploration, competition between European countries, or the desire to convert
new people to Catholicism? Another potential pitfall
is one you might have seen in a science class or in statistics, which is correlation
does not imply causation. In other words, two events
aren't necessarily related just because they happened
close together in time or space. For example, although epidemic
diseases led to the deaths of indigenous people in the New World at the same time that the
discovery of new foodstuffs increased the population
of Europe and Africa, the introduction of diseases didn't cause those populations to increase. Those were just two things
that happened simultaneously. One way you can check whether one event was caused by an earlier one, is to ask whether event
B would have happened whether or not event A happened. The populations of Europe and Africa would likely have
increased with the addition of those new foods even if there hadn't been any epidemic diseases at all. The last thing that we
wanna take into account while we're thinking about causation, is the difference between short and long-term effects of an event. Missing my first period test might be a short-term effect of oversleeping, but failing the class
because I missed tests would be a long-term effect. And maybe because I failed that test I ended up focusing on a
different subject in school, and heading into a different career. That would be a really long-term effect. Think about the effects
of transatlantic voyages that we've discussed, and see if you can categorize them into short-term effects
and long-term effects. You might find that some
things fit into both categories as processes that started immediately but then went on for a long time, like the epidemic
diseases that immediately affected indigenous people, but then continued to reshape
the demographic composition of the Americas for hundreds of years. So let's recap what we've
learned about causation. First, historians argue about causation as they try to pin down the
reason an event happened. Second, causes must happen before effects. Third, a single event might
have more than one cause or more than one effect, and some causes and effects may be more important than others. Fourth, events that
happened near to each other in time or space, aren't
necessarily related by a cause and effect relationship. Coincidences happen. And lastly, causes may have both short and long-term effects, immediate results, and downstream impacts that go far beyond the time in question.