NARRATOR:
After threshold two, the Universe had lots of stars, but most of space was still
cold, dark, and mostly empty. The Universe
consisted almost entirely of two types of atomic matter,
hydrogen and helium. These were both light gases and one of them
was totally inert. Like a painter
with just two colors, one of which won't mix, it was impossible to make
anything very interesting. The Universe
needed more colors, more chemical elements. And that was the
work of threshold three. Making new elements meant fusing more protons
and neutrons together. To do that, you needed
very high temperatures which could only be found
inside massive stars that were aging or dying. Only they have the right Goldilocks conditions
for threshold three. Why? Well, large
stars have so much mass that they can create enormous
pressures and temperatures. Those temperatures
get cranked even higher when large stars
run out of hydrogen. When that happens,
fusion stops at the center and the star collapses
like a burst balloon. If the star was big enough,
the collapse is huge, creating such high temperatures
that helium nuclei can fuse into nuclei of carbon. When the star has
used up its helium, it collapses again
and the cycle starts over. The star heats up and starts to fuse carbon
to form oxygen. It collapses again, then does the same
to create other elements like silicon, nitrogen,
and eventually iron. If it's a really,
really big star, it will finally die
in what's called a supernova. That's an explosion so hot
and so energetic that for a while, it'll shine
like an entire galaxy and will produce enough heat
to form all the other elements of the periodic table. Then the supernova scatters
these new elements into space and voila, we have a Universe
with lots of different elements. Threshold three was
crossed for the first time when the first large star died and it's still
being crossed today as billions upon billions
of large stars die, scattering the raw
materials needed to build wondrous
new forms of complexity.