Ever since the first dinosaurs were
found about two centuries ago, people of always wondered what happened to these animals? Why did
they go extinct? When did they go extinct? And we know the dinosaurs went extinct
about sixty five million years ago, right at the end of the Cretaceous. We know
there was a big asteroid that hit the planet at that time, we know there was
massive volcanic eruptions going on at that time, but it's remained a bit of a mystery. Did
one or both of those things cause dinosaurs to go extinct or were there other factors involved. We have the paper coming out in 
nature communications on the dinosaur extinction and how dinosaurs were changing
during those ten to twelve million years right before their extinction. And this
is a collaboration between myself and Mark Norell, my adviser here at the
American Museum,  and our colleagues Richard Butler and
Albert Prieto-Márquez in Munich. So what we've done with this project is we've
looked specifically at dinosaur anatomy there has been a lot of previous work on
the dinosaur extinction over the last several decades, but what most people have
done before is, they've looked at species counts. They've looked at 
dinosaur diversity in terms of how many species of dinosaurs there were and how
that changed over time. What we do in this paper is that we take
a completely different approach. So we're not as interested in the number
of species as we are in the number of kinds. What we've done is we've tried to
tease that signal out to look at the physical difference among different
dinosaur species, how that represents itself as one comes up to the terminal Cretaceous event. Our results show really that 
dinosaurs were in a state of flux during the the final twelve million years
before they went extinct; some groups of dinosaurs like the carnivorous dinosaurs
and smaller species of plant eaters were pretty steady in the revolution
during those twelve million years before the extinction, but other groups of dinosaurs
specifically the very large plant-eating dinosaurs, things like the ceratopsians like triceratops and also the  duck-billed dinosaurs, these animals seemed to have been undergoing a very long-term decline. We also found that different dinosaurs
living in different parts of the world were changing in different ways. So,
dinosaurs living in North America generally seem to have been undergoing a
decline in biodiversity at least these large
plant-eaters, whereas those living in Asia seem to have actually been increasing. I think it'll help us understand the extinction event a little better especially as the record becomes more densely sampled and we're able to
understand some different animal and organismal groups and to see if they show
some of the same patterns as these groups of non-avian dinosaurs do. We'll have a better picture of what was going on right before the big event.