- [Instructor] In an E2 mechanism, we need alkyl halide and
we need a strong base. On our alkyl halide, the carbon that's directly
bonded to the halogen is the alpha carbon, and the carbon next to the alpha carbon is the beta carbon. And we need a beta hydrogen for this reaction to occur. And all four of those atoms must be in the same plane. So this hydrogen, this
carbon, this carbon, and this halogen are
all in the same plane, which is why I have the bonds
drawn in straight lines here. The hydrogen and the halogen
must be on opposite sides, if I draw a little line here
through the carbon-carbon bond, and that's said to be anti. So for this mechanism,
we need antiperiplanar hydrogen and halogen. The hydrogen and halogen
are anti to each other, and they are in the same plane. The mechanism for this reaction
is a concerted mechanism. So the strong base comes
along and takes this proton, which leaves these electrons, these electrons move into
here to form our double bond at the same time that these electrons are coming off onto our halogen, so it's concerted. And let's follow those
electrons in red here, the electrons in the carbon-hydrogen bond, moving here to form our double bond. So our product is an alkene. When you look at the
kinetics for an E2 mechanism, the overall rates of the reaction is equal to the rate constant times the concentration of the
substrate to the first power, and the substrate is your alkyl halides, times the concentration of the base to the first power, so our strong base. And so, this is an elimination reaction that depends on the concentration of both the substrate and the base, and that's why we call
this an E2 reaction, an E2 mechanism. The E stands for elimination, and let me go and write that in here. So the E is for elimination. This is an elimination reaction. And the two is because this
mechanism is bimolecular, meaning it's dependent on the
concentration of two things, the concentration of the
substrate and the base. So let's say you increase the concentration of your substrate, which is your alkyl halides, by a factor of two, so increase the concentration
of that by a factor of two. Let's say you also
increase the concentration of you base by a factor of two. So increase that by a factor of two. What happens to the overall
rate of the reaction? So, the rate would be equal to, now you're thinking about two to the first times two to the first, because both of these
are to the first power, and we're doubling the
concentration of both. So two times two is of course four, so we're gonna increase the
rate by a factor of four if you double the concentration of both. So this reaction is
similar to an SN2 reaction in terms of the kinetics. Remember, in SN2, the two is there because it's also a bimolecular mechanism. So here's an E2 reaction, and left is our alkyl halides. The carbon that's bonded to our halogen is our alpha carbon. And then all of these carbons around here would be beta carbons. But all of our beta
carbons are equivalent. In this case, our strong
base is the hydroxide anion, so we need a source of
the hydroxide anion here. And the mechanism would be E2. So let me go ahead and
redraw out alkyl halide, so I'll put in lone pairs
of electrons on the bromine. We know the mechanism is
a concerted mechanism. It happens in one step. So let me draw in our hydroxide over here. And we know that hydroxide
is going to take a proton from a beta carbon. So I'll draw in a hydrogen
here on that beta carbon, and as our base takes this beta proton, the electrons in this bond moving here to form a double bond, at the same time, these electrons
come off onto the bromine. So for our product, we would have an alkene. So let me draw in the
alkene that would form, and let me highlight our electrons. So these electrons in magenta moved in here to form our double bond, and this is our alkene. So we'd also have the bromide anion. So let me just go ahead
and draw this in here, so we'd have our bromide anion with a negative one formal charge. So we could say that these
electrons in here in blue came off onto bromine
to form bromide anion. And if you take hydroxide, and you add a proton onto hydroxide, you would also have water. So let me draw that in here as well. So your bromide anion, and you would have water. But we're really only
thinking about this alkene that forms here. So when we talk about kinetics, we said that our E2 mechanism was similar to an SN2 mechanism. They're both bimolecular. But when you're thinking about the structure of the substrate, E2 is very different from SN2. SN2 reactions do not occur when you had a tertiary substrate, and that was because of steric hindrance. There is too much steric hindrance for the nucleophile to attack. So if you think about hydroxide trying to attack this alkyl halide, there's too much steric hindrance because of these methyl groups here. But when you're thinking
about an E2 mechanism, it's different. The hydroxide anion doesn't have to get close to this carbon. It's only taking a proton away, and there's enough room for it to do that. And I think it'll be a
little bit more clear if I show you a video, so we can see the difference
between those two reactions. Here we have our tertiary alkyl halide with yellow being the halogen, and that's directly bonded
to our alpha carbon, and we have three methyl
groups around that. So one, two, and three. If we think about this
tertiary alkyl halide trying to participate in SN2 mechanism, if the hydroxide anion tried to function as a nucleophile
and attack this carbon, we have these bulky
methyl groups in the way, which block the hydroxide anion. So there's too much steric hindrance from these relatively bulky methyl groups to attack this carbon. If we think about an E2 mechanism, remember, in an E2 mechanism,
we're trying to take a proton from the beta carbons. Here's a beta carbon right here. Let's say we're trying
to take this proton. We need to get these four
atoms in the same plane. And it's easy just to see
that in Newman projection. So if I rotate a little
bit, and I turn this, we got a different confirmation. Now we can see that these four atoms are all in the same plane, and that's what we need
for an E2 mechanism. And it's pretty easy for hydroxide to come along and take this
beta proton right here. There's not much steric hindrance at all, so an E2 mechanism is possible. We've just seen that it's possible for a tertiary alkyl halide
to undergo an E2 reaction. And actually, as you go from primary to secondary, to tertiary, you increase in the rate of reactivity in an E2 reaction. To explain why, let's look at mechanism for a secondary and a tertiary substrate, and let's analyze the products and see if we can explain
why this is the case. So I'll draw in a beta proton
here on my tertiary substrate, and we'll think about our strong base taking this proton. These electrons move in here. These electrons come off onto our halogen. So our product would be this alkene. So our electrons in magenta forms our double bond here. So the same thing for
our secondary substrate. I'll draw in a beta proton and we have our strong base that's going to take that beta proton. These electrons move in here, and these electrons come
off onto our leaving group. And so, our product for
a secondary substrate would look like this, the electrons in magenta
formed our double bonds. Now let's analyze our two products. So on the left, this alkene is a monosubstituted alkene. We have one alkyl group
bonded to this carbon. On the right, we have
a disubstituted alkene, so we have two alkyl groups
bonded to this carbon. And as the double bond forms
in this concerted mechanism, it is stabilized by the
presence of these alkyl groups. So remember from the
alkene stability video, the increase substitution
of the double bond means increased stability, so this is more stable here. So increased stability. And this alkene has two alkyl groups to stabilize the forming double bond. The alkene on the left has only one alkyl group to stabilize the forming double bonds. That's one way to think about
why a tertiary alkyl halide would actually react the fastest. Now, it is possible for
a primary alkyl halide to undergo an E2 mechanism, so don't think that a primary won't. As a matter of fact, it will, and we'll talk about examples
of that in future videos.