We've already seen that
by 1925 Benito Mussolini was the absolute
dictator of Italy. He was now Il Duce,
or the leader. And him and the
fascists would then proceed to consolidate
more and more power. And they would use
the threat of force. They did use the state
security apparatus to enforce their will. They took over the press. They banned all other parties. But there was also
a popular sentiment that was supporting them. People wanted a strong-- or
there were elements in Italy that were in favor of a strong
leader, a charismatic leader, like Mussolini. But then as we
get into the '30s, in particular the
mid-1930s, Mussolini starts to become more aggressive
in terms of foreign policy. And this eventually leads to him
becoming less and less popular. And also leads him to
getting more and more aligned with the Germans. You might remember,
going into World War I, he actually wanted to
fight in World War I on the side of the entente,
which Italy eventually does do. And throughout
this entire period, he does not want to rock
the boat with Great Britain and France. But as his imperial
ambitions grow, he'll find that he has more
in common with Nazi Germany-- or he's finding more
sympathy with Nazi Germany-- than he is with the
British and French. And so we go to 1935,
so we're obviously skipping a huge gap
right over here. But as we get into
1935, Mussolini feels that it's time
to really exercise his imperial ambitions. Italy already had holdings
in northeast Africa. It had colonies in Eritrea,
Italian Somaliland. And he had aspirations
to take over Ethiopia. Ethiopia, at this
point in time, was one of the few
African nations that was not essentially
colonized, or not being controlled,
by a European power. It was at the time Ethiopia
was called Abyssinia. And so in 1935,
the Italians invade Abyssinia, invade Ethiopia. And not only is it a
very aggressive invasion, it's also a very cruel invasion. They use chemical warfare. It's very ugly. Many, many, many civilians die. And this isn't taken well by
the other powers of Europe, in particular Great
Britain and France. But you might remember, based
on what we learned about in Nazi Germany, that they
were in no mood to start wars. They were kind of in
an appeasement mode. And even with Italy they
were willing to make a secret agreement,
the Hoare-Laval. And this was a
secret agreement that actually would have allowed
Italy to maintain control over significant
chunks of Ethiopia. But this was eventually
leaked to the public. And the British and
French public at this time did not tolerate this. And so this whole incident,
the Italians invading Ethiopia, the unpopularity of this amongst
the civilians in Great Britain and in France, this further
distanced those countries from Italy. And the only major
nation that was not opposed to Italy's invasion
of Ethiopia was Germany. And so this started to bring
Mussolini-- who in the 1920s did not think much
of Hitler-- started to bring him closer and
closer and closer to Hitler. And their invasion of Ethiopia
would continue into the start and through World War II. And it's a famously cruel
attempted colonization, or invasion. But these trends continue,
his imperialistic tendencies, his alignment with more
and more nationalistic nations in Europe. In 1936, you have the Spanish
Civil War breaking out. And Mussolini decides to
support the Nationalists led by Francisco Franco, who
eventually comes to power. But Mussolini decides
to support him. And this isn't a super popular
thing amongst the Italians. They're like, what are we doing
in these other countries trying to fight other people's war? But he decides to
support the Nationalists. And once again, this brings
him closer to the Germans and further away from Great
Britain and the French who are not supportive
of Francisco Franco. Then you forward
to 1937, and as you remember Mussolini was
vehemently anti-communist, vehemently anti-socialist. So were the Nazis. So were the Japanese. And so in 1937, Italy joins
the Anti-Comintern Pact with Germany and Japan. And this is essentially
the nascent Axis powers. And this literally stands for
anti-International Communism. So they're going to join
together and aggressively fight communism wherever it might
show, international communism. And this would eventually be
the basis of the Axis powers as we go into World War II. And so then we get into 1939. And by 1939 Germany is
already aggressively expanding its territory. It had already executed
on the Anschluss. It had merged with
Austria, or you could say it had
unified with Austria. It had already taken
over the Sudetenland. It was in process of taking
over a significant part of Czechoslovakia. And Mussolini wanted in
on the action as well. So in 1939, he decides
to invade Albania. And this, right
over here-- in case you don't know where
Albania is-- this is a map of Europe at the time. And Albania is right over here. They're able to overrun
Albania very quickly. The king deposed the king. And so Mussolini is
exercising, once again, his imperial ambitions. He's getting closer and closer
to the Nazis, who are frankly the main sympathizers with
what Mussolini is trying to do. And so by May of that year--
the invasion of Albania is in April-- but
by May of that year you have a final formal military
alliance with the Nazis called the Pact of Steel. And as you might remember,
this is only a few months-- so this is in May-- this
is only a few months before the Nazi
invasion of Poland, which is the catalyst for
the beginning of World War II in Europe. Italy didn't immediately
enter World War II in September of 1939 when
the Nazis invade Poland. Similar to what Italy
did in World War I, it was waiting to
see which side seemed to be in a better position. By 1940, it felt that a
Nazi victory was imminent. And it decides to declare
war on Britain and France. So declares war on
Britain and France. And this is the formal
entry of the Italians into World War II as
part of the Axis powers.