OK. So now what we're
going to do is, we're going to
modify our arduino nano to work with this bot. So the nano that we
have has these header pins that stick out
of the bottom of it, and you can see them here. And the header pins are
great for connecting it to a prototyping
border or bread board, but they don't provide
a lot of ways for us to connect it to
our particular bot. So we have these female
header pin connectors and they've got a male
end and a female end, so we're going to trim off
just the right number of those using our nipper pliers. Once we have those
trimmed off, we are going to connect the
header pins from the arduino to the header pins on our
female-male header pin connectors, and that will allow
us to plug wires in and take them back out really easily. So it'll make it easier for
us to change things out. Otherwise, we would have to
solder directly to the arduino, and that could be a problem
if, for some reason, we wanted to change
something around. So we want to make sure that we
count the exact number of pins that is sticking out
of the arduino board, and we match the
male-female header pin connector to the number of pins
that are sticking out there. So we're going to
take these pins and we're going to bend them
90 degrees with our pliers. We're going to grab our
pliers and we're just going to bend those
pins 90 degrees. It's really important that
we do we do this carefully and that we bend them
completely out 90 degrees, so that they're sticking
straight out of the side. So they were sticking
straight down, so we're going to make sure
that we bend them completely to stick straight out the side. And you'll probably have to
bend them a couple of times to get them perfectly straight
and get them to line up just right, but this is going
to make it a lot easier for us to connect to those male-female
header socket pins, which are sitting there on the table. OK. So we're bending all these
out and what we can do is, once we've got those
bent out-- it's important, also, that they're all sort
of bent out at the same angle. You don't want them
sticking in a whole bunch of different directions. You want them all
reasonably the same. So when we push
this down, we can tell that there's
still a little bit that we can bend those to get
them perfectly horizontal. They should be at
the same plane-- they should be in the same plane
as the actual arduino board. So perfectly
horizontal, and that'll make it a lot easier to
make our solder connections with our male-female
socket pin connectors, or header pin connectors
that are, again, sitting on the table there. So now that we've got
all that bent out, we're going to take our
alligator clips, or the helping hand clips, and we're going
to hold our arduino in place. Now, if you're working
with a partner, you can get them
to take a pliers and hold the nano in place. Just be sure when you grab
the nano that you only touch the very corners,
the parts that you see the little holes on. You don't want to squeeze
any of the components. You see a lot of little
boxes on the back there-- those are components. And if you grab those with
a alligator clip or pliers, you could break
them off and that means that the chip won't work
the way it's supposed to-- or, the board won't work the way
it's supposed to, I should say. So once you have the
piece, you should have the pins from the header
pin-- the male-female header pin-- connecting to the
pins from your arduino. They should be flush up against
the pins from the arduino. So what I'm doing now is I'm
just using some spare alligator clips to make sure that those
two things are squeezed tightly against one another,
and then I'm going to take my soldering iron
and put a little bit of solder on it, and just knock that
extra solder off again. We're just tinning the
tip of the soldering iron. And then I'm going to
put the soldering iron right on the joint
between those two things, and just put enough
solder on to make sure that there's good connection. You don't want to
put too much solder, because if you bridge
the joint between the two pins-- in other words,
if you bridge across two different connections, it'll
cause some problems for you. The chip won't work the
way it's supposed to. So you want to put
just enough solder to connect the two, but
not a whole lot more. And you can see that
smoke from the flux is moving out of
the way rapidly, and that's because I've
got a good air flow, so I definitely recommend
making sure you've got, like, a fan going or something so
you don't breathe the flux. And so once you've got a
number of those connected you can take that final
alligator clip off. And I just saw a pin there
that needed a little bit more solder, and we'll
do the rest there. So now, all of those pins are
connected and what we've done is-- I'm just going
back through and double checking any of the other pins. This is the second side,
so I did the second side the exact same way
as the first side. And so that means now that we
can easily swap out the two. And so I'm trimming
off the excess wires. There's some wire that
sticks past the solder joint. So I'm going to trim that
off using the nipper pliers. And when you do this, make sure
you're wearing safety glasses. Because those extra
little wires can fly off, and you want to make sure
you're wearing safety glasses to do that. Now, we have to make sure
that the parts that we just connected don't
conduct electricity to some part of the board
we don't want them to. So we're going to cover over
the bottom of our arduino nano with electrical
tape, and we want to make sure all of those
connections we just made are completely covered. Otherwise, they could rub up
against some part of the motor controller or another exposed
metal piece and cause a short. And that might ruin
our board and we don't want that to happen. So now we're ready to connect
our arduino board to our motor controller.