- [Lecturer] The choice of
a solvent can have an effect on an SN1 or an SN2 mechanism. Let's start with polar protic solvents. A polar protic solvent is a solvent that has at least one hydrogen connected to an electronegative atom. For example if you look at water here, you can see we have a
hydrogen directly connected to an electronegative
atom which is oxygen. Water is an example of
a polar protic solvent. Next we have methanol
which again has a hydrogen directly connected to
an electronegative atom and oxygen and finally acetic acid which
has the same thing here. Here is our hydrogen
and here is our oxygen. So these polar protic solvents favor an SN1 mechanism. Let me write that in here. So an SN1 mechanism is favored by a polar protic solvent and let's look at why. So down here I have tert butyl bromide and for an SN1 mechanism the first step here would
be loss of a leaving group so these electrons come
off on to the bromine to form our bromide anion and we are gonna form
a carbocation as well. So let me draw in the carbocation first. So we have a carbon that is
bonded to three methyl groups and this is a plainer carbocation so I'm trying to show that. Our carbon has a plus one formal charge and we are also gonna
have our bromine here which we have three
lone pairs of electrons. I'll put those in. And then we're gonna get one
more lone pair of electrons on the bromine that came
from this bond in here. So highlighting those
electrons in magenta. Here are those electrons in magenta and bromine has a
negative one formal charge as the bromide anion. So we have this carbocation and this anion in our SN1 mechanism and
we know this is right determining step of our SN1 mechanism loss of a leaving group. If we are using a polar protic solvent such as water, water can
stabilize both the cation and the anion. For example for our
carbocation we know that carbon has a positive charge on it. And if we look at water
we know that this oxygen here is a partial negative charge since oxygen is more
electronegative than hydrogen. This hydrogen would have
a partial positive charge so the negative portion of
this molecule, the oxygen would interact with this positive charge on our carbocations. Let's go ahead and show
a water molecule here and the partially negative oxygen with its three lone pairs of
electrons here on the oxygen will help to stabilize our carbocation. And for our negative anion
for our bromide anion here, which is negatively charged, it would be the other end
of the water molecule. So if I draw in my water
molecule right here so two lone pairs of
electrons on the oxygen our partial positive
hydrogens would interact and help to stabilize that anion. So polar protic solvents help to stabilize both the carbocation and
the anion and that solvation of both cations and anions helps the SN1 mechanism proceed. So that's why polar protic solvent will favor an SN1 mechanism. Now let's look at polar aprotic solvents. So first lets look at dimethyl sulphoxide. So more commonly known as DMSO. So here's the DMS and O. Oxygen is more
electronegative than sulfur. So the oxygen is going to
withdraw some electron density and become partially negative. And the sulfur would
be partially positive. A polar aprotic solvent
does not have a hydrogen directly connected to
an electronegative atom. So we think about the hydrogens on DMSO. So let me just sketch
them in here real fast, there'll be three on this carbon and there'll be three on this carbon. So here we have hydrogens
directly connected to a carbon and of course carbon is
not very electronegative. So that's why this is a
polar aprotic solvent. Next let's look at DMF. DMF is the short way of
writing this one here. Again no hydrogen directly connected to an electronegative atom. This hydrogen is directly
connected to this carbon and then this carbon would
have three hydrogens on it and then this carbon would
have three hydrogens on it. So DMF is a polar aprotic solvent. And finally let's look
at this last one here. So the abbreviation would be HMPA. So let me write that down here. HMPA. Again no hydrogen is
directly connected to an electronegative atom. Polar aprotic solvents
favor an SN2 mechanism. So let's look at why. Down here I have an SN2 reaction. On the left we have this alkyl halide. Let's say we have sodium hydroxide. We could use DMSO as our solvent so let me write that in here. So we are gonna use DMSO. And we know in an SN2 mechanism
the nucleophile attacks our alkyl halide at the same time our leaving group leaves. So our nucleophile is the hydroxide ion. It is going to attack this carbon and these electrons are gonna
come off on to the bromide to form our bromide anion. So our OH replaces our bromine and we can see that over
here in our product. In an SN2 mechanism we
need a strong nucleophile to attack our alkyl halide. And DMSO is gonna help us
increase the effectiveness of our nucleophile which
is our hydroxide ion. So let's look at some pictures of how it helps us. So we have sodium hydroxide here. So first let's focus in
on the sodium, our cation. So here is the sodium cation. DMSO is a good solvator of cations and that's because oxygen has
a partial negative charge. The sulfur has a partial positive charge and these lone pairs of
electrons on the oxygen help to stabilize the
positive charge on our sodium. So same thing over here. Partial negative, partial positive and again we are able
to solvate our cation. So the fact that our polar aprotic solvent is a good solvator of a cation means we can separate this ion
from our nucleophile. That increases the effectiveness
of the hydroxide ion. The hydroxide ion itself
is not solvated by a polar aprotic solvent. So you might think, okay well
if the oxygen is partially negative and the sulfur
is partially positive. The partially positive
sulfur could interact with our negatively charged nucleophile. But remember we have these
bulky methyl groups here. And because of steric
hindrance that prevents our hydroxide ion from
interacting with DMSO. So the hydroxide ion is all by itself which of course increases
its effectiveness as a nucleophile. It is better able to
attack the alkyl halide. If we had used something like water, we know that water is
a polar protic solvent with the oxygen being partially negative and the hydrogens being partially positive and a polar protic solvent would interact with our
nucleophile solvating it and essentially decreasing
the effectiveness of our nucleophile. So that's why polar protic
solvents don't work as well if you want an SN2 mechanism. A polar aprotic solvent
increases the effectiveness of our nucleophile therefore
favoring our SN2 mechanism.