- [Instructor] The period
from the end of the Civil War to the start of the
20th Century was one of incredible economic transformation
in the United States. In 1865 the United States
was the 4th largest industrial economy in the world. By the 1890s, it had leapt to 1st place. At the same time, where people
worked, how people worked, and how much money they made,
all changed drastically. During the Gilded Age, the
United States went from being a nation of farmers to
a nation of factory workers. The nature of work itself also changed as large corporations began to implement management techniques aimed at increasing efficiency and profit. The gap between rich
and poor also increased considerably during this era. So what caused this
economic transformation? In this video I want to
explore some of the factors that contributed to these
changes in work and the economy: technological advancements,
new business strategies, business consolidation, and
pro-growth government policies. So let's dive a little
deeper into each of these. One of the biggest factors
contributing to the rise of industrial capitalism was technology. The late 19th Century
was an era of innovation. Nearly half a million patents were issued between 1860 and 1900. Improvements in machinery
and manufacturing processes, like the Bessemer process to make steel, increased productivity. And there were new technologies
that helped business: the telephone to coordinate
transactions over long distances, the typewriter
to speed up record keeping, and electricity which made it possible to work safely after dark. And the expansion of the
railroad, made it easy to get raw materials to factories and finished goods to markets. Corporations also devised new strategies to cope with doing business
at a national scale. In this era the first
national brands emerged. Companies like Coca-Cola
and Kellogg's Corn Flakes began advertising to national audiences. And mail order catalogs like
Montgomery Ward and Sears sold products across the country. An integrated nation-wide
system of business and shipping made it easy for customers
and companies to connect. During the Gilded Age
coordinating supplies and workers, time tables and sales, became its own full time job called management. Managers worked to increase
efficiency and cut costs. They did this in a number of ways: by replacing workers with machines, increasing working hours, and
decreasing wages for laborers. The titans of industry used other measures to maximize profits as well. The Gilded Age was an era of
ruthless business competition and the magnates of each industry set out to crush their enemies. Many of the men who made fabulous fortunes during the Gilded Age, started
out in the railroad industry taking advantage of government
subsidies and land grants. The U.S. Government took a laissez faire, or hands off, approach to
regulating business at this time. And there were no
corporate or income taxes so it was possible for a few
individuals and companies to amass enormous wealth. They did so by consolidating
their businesses, reducing competition,
and controlling markets. Steel baron Andrew Carnegie
was one of the first businessmen to employ vertical
integration in his companies. The goal of vertical
integration is to control every part of the supply
chain for a product. For example, Carnegie
owned not just steel mills, but the mines that produced
the iron ore and coal necessary for making steel, and the ships and
railroads that transported raw materials to the factories, and finished steel from the factories. This cut out middlemen and ensured that Carnegie never had to
wait for other companies to send him supplies. Big businesses in the
Gilded Age also reduced competition through holding
companies, trusts, and pools. Holding companies and
trusts allowed mergers that put many companies under the control of one parent company. Using these tactics, John D. Rockefeller who owned Standard Oil, controlled 95% of the country's oil supply by
the end of the 19th Century. Standard Oil become the nation's first billion dollar company. Some companies realized that cooperation was better than competition
and simply agreed to divide markets and
profits between them. These groups of supposedly
competing business entities were known as pools. The rise of industrial
capitalism had major consequences on American life, politics,
and foreign policy. For some, this new economy meant a higher standard of living than ever before, with cheap and plentiful
material comforts. But this new way of doing
business came at the expense of wages and working conditions, leading workers to begin organizing unions and advocating for political
solutions to economic problems. And as the United States
produced more and more, it would begin looking
abroad for new markets to sell its goods and consequently, for greater influence in the world.