NARRATOR:
When the Earth first formed, the solar system
was a violent place. Giant hunks of rock,
metal and ice slammed into
the Earth's surface. As material collided and fused, there is intense
heat and pressure. Matter vaporized on impact
leaving puddles of magma. Many of the collisions
released water vapor and other gases,
which gradually formed a blanket of steam
around the early Earth. This thickened over time
becoming the first atmosphere. Some of the lighter gases
like hydrogen leaked into space, but the denser steam collected
and had a greenhouse effect insulating, heating and melting
the surface of the planet. Over time, the Earth, in a process
called differentiation, separated into layers
and it's crust cooled. Steam in the atmosphere
collapsed and formed the oceans, covering much of the planet
in chemical-rich waters. The young Earth settled down, but then something
about the size of Mars is thought to have
slammed into the planet, causing immense change. The two bodies coalesced and
material was blasted outward. Debris from the impact
formed a ring of matter that orbited the Earth
and eventually became the moon. The surface of the Earth became molten again
from the intense heat, and the oceans reformed
a steamed atmosphere. When things finally
cooled down again, the Earth's crust hardened and steam settled
back down to reform the oceans. The moon stabilized
the Earth's tilt and helped to regulate climate. This part of Earth's
history is uncertain because there is no
surviving sedimentary rock to offer clues
about the environment. There may have been several
large asteroid or comet impacts, but none as big as the one
that formed the moon. Molten rock or magma oozed in some places
and blasted out in others. Volcanic activity released heavier gases like
carbon dioxide and methane. There were still very little
oxygen in the atmosphere. The oldest sedimentary rocks
found in Greenland tell us a lot about the Earth
at this time. There were oceans,
lands, rivers, and beaches. Deep in the ocean, chemical-rich
hydrothermal venting may have contributed to the
first forms of life on Earth. These first microbial organisms
are thought to have eventually spread throughout
the Earth's oceans. Some microbes
consumed hydrogen gas and others produced
methane as a waste product. Biology began
to affect the atmosphere. By about 3.5 billion years ago,
stromatolites-- mounds made by microbes--
populated the world's beaches. Some early microbes used the
sun's energy for photosynthesis, but the first photosynthesizers
didn't release oxygen. However, by 2.8
billion years ago, life forms evolved
that could use sunlight to split water molecules
and release oxygen as a waste product. These were the cyanobacteria that still prosper
in today's oceans. Most of the new oxygen
combined with organic carbon to recreate carbon
dioxide molecules, and some was used up
another chemical reactions. But eventually, oxygen
flooded the atmosphere and touched off a mass of
ecological disaster from many of the
anaerobic life forms that were poisoned
by the abundance of oxygen. Other life forms adapted
to thrive in the new conditions. The rock record offers proof. Oxidized iron compounds
are reddish and rust colored. In certain layers
of sedimentary rock, they demonstrate the
predominance of oxygen after 2.4 billion years ago. At this time,
oxygen formed the ozone layer about 20 to 30 kilometers
above the ground, protecting life on the
Earth's surface from the sun's harmful
ultraviolet rays. The rise of oxygen was coupled with the reduction
in greenhouse gases like methane and carbon dioxide, so the Earth retained
less of the sun's heat, and the global climate
became significantly colder. There was mass glaciation and the Earth
was encased in ice, often called a snowball Earth. The icy shell reflected
sunlight, making it colder and colder, but volcanoes punched
through the ice and volcanic carbon dioxide gradually built up
in the atmosphere. When the greenhouse effect
became strong enough, the planet warmed
and the ice melted. Scientists think that there
were three snowball Earth cycles over a period of time from 2.4
to 2.2 billion years ago, and then a period
of about one billion years in which the atmosphere
and climate were fairly stable. More recently,
the planet experienced other snowball Earth events, but some life forms
were able to survive the cold. The current eon,
the Phanerozoic, brought a proliferation
of plant and animal life. Vascular plants with tissues
for conducting water and nutrients colonized the land
about 400 million years ago and their photosynthesis
caused oxygen levels in the atmosphere to rise. By about 300 million years ago, extensive forest
covered the Earth. They pushed the
oxygen levels higher and enabled an
even greater diversity of life. Biology, geology,
astronomical events and periodic changes
in the Earth's position in orbit influenced the climate,
but overall, the atmosphere remained stable enough
for life to persist.