- For the past 12 weeks we've
been investigating our living planet together, learning
how it works on many levels, how populations of organisms interact, how communities thrive
and ecosystems change and how humans are wrecking
the nice, perfectly functioning systems Earth has been using for hundreds of thousands of years. And now it's graduation day. This here is like a commencement
speech, where I talk to you about the future
and our role in it and how what we're doing to the
planet is totally awful, but we're taking steps to
undo some of the damage that we've done. So what better way to wrap
up our series on ecology than by taking a look
at the growing fields of conservation biology
and restoration ecology. These just blends all the kung
fu moves that we've learned about in the past 11 weeks
and apply them to protecting ecosystems and cleaning up the messes that we've already made. And one of the main things
they teach us is that doing these things is difficult,
like in the way that uncooking bacon is difficult. So let's look at what we're
doing, and try to uncook this unbelievably large pile
of bacon that we've made. (upbeat music) Just outside of Missoula,
Montana where I live, we've got a superfund site. Not super fun, superfund. A hazardous waste site that
the government is in charge of cleaning up. The mess here was made
more than 100 years ago, when there was a dam in the
Clark Fork River behind me, called the Milltown Dam. The part of Montana has a
long history of copper mining, and back in 1908, there
was a humongous flood that washed about 4.5 mullion
cubic meters of mine tailings, chock full of arsinic and
toxic heavy metals into the Clark Fork River. And most of it washed
into the reservoir created by the Milltown Dam. I mean, actually it was
lucky that the dam was there, it'd only been completed
six months before, or the whole river system all
the way to the Pacific Ocean would have been a toxic mess. As it happened though,
only about 160 kilometers of the river was all toxic messed up. A lot of it recuperated over
time, but all that nasty, hazardous waste was still
sitting behind Milltown Dam, and some of it leached
into the groundwater that started polluting
nearby residents' wells. So scientists spent decades
studying the extent of the damage caused by the waste and coming up with ways to fix it. And from 2006 to 2010
engineers carefully removed all the toxic sediment as
well as the dam itself. Now, this stretch of the Clark
Fork river runs unimpeded for the first time in over a century, and the restored area
where the dam used to be, is being turned into a State Park. Efforts like this how
us conservation biology and restoration ecology in action. Conservation biology involves
measuring the biodiversity of an ecosystem and
determining how to protect it, in this case, it was used
to size up the health of fish populations in
the Clark Fork River which were severely affected by
the waste behind the dam and the dam blocking their access to spawning grounds upstream. And figuring out how to protect them during the dam's removal. Restoration ecology meanwhile,
is the science of restoring broken ecosystems like
taking an interrupted, polluted river and turning it into what you see taking shape here. These do gooder fix it
up sciences are practical rather than theoretical,
by which I mean in order to fix something that's broken,
you've got to have good idea of what's making it work to begin with. If something goes wrong with
the expansion of the universe, we wouldn't be able to fix
it, because we have no idea at all what's making all that happen. So in order to fix a failing ecosystem, you have to figure out what
was holding it together in the first place and
the glue that holds every ecosystem together is biodiversity. But then of course, biodiversity can mean many different things. So far we've generally used
it to mean species diversity, or the variety of species in an ecosystem. But there are also other
ways of talking about biodiversity that help
conservation biologists and restoration ecologists
figure out how to save species and repair ecosystems. In addition to the diversity of species, ecologists look at
diversity within the species as whole and between populations. Genetic diversity is important
because it makes evolution possible by allowing the
species to adapt to new situations like disease
and climate change, and then another level
of biodiversity has to do with ecosystem diversity
or the variety of different ecosystems within an area. A big old forest for example,
can host several different kinds of ecosystems like
wetland, alpine and aquatic ones. Just like we talked about when we covered ecological succession, the
more little pockets you've got performing different
functions, the more resilient the region will be as a whole. So yeah, understanding all
of this is really important to figuring out how to repair an ecosystem that is in shambles. But how do conservation
biologists take the information about what makes an ecosystem
tick and use it to save the place from going under. Well, there's more than one
way to approach this problem. One way is called small
population conservation. This approach focuses
on identifying species and populations that are
really small, and tries to help boost their numbers and genetic diversity. Low population and low genetic
diversity are kind of a death nail for a species that
actually feed off each other, one problem making the
other problem worse, ultimately causing a species
to spiral into extinction. See, when a tiny little
population suffers from inbreeding or genetic drift, that is a
shift in its overall genetic makeup, this leads to even less diversity, which in turn causes
lower reproduction rates and higher mortality rates which makes the population smaller still. This terrible little dynamic is known by the awesome term extinction vortex. The next step is to figure
out how small of a population is too small. Ecologists do this by
calculating what's called the minimum viable population,
which is the smallest size in which a population can
survive and sustain itself. To get at this number
you have to know the real breeding population of say grizzly bears in Yellowstone National
Park, and then you figure out everything you can about
a grizzly's life history. How long they live, who
gets to breed the most, how often they can have
babies, that kind of thing. After all the information
is collected, ecologists can run the numbers and figure
out for the grizzlies in Yellowstone a population of
say, hypothetically 90 bears would have a 95 percent chance
of surviving for 100 years. But if there were a
population of 100 bears, the population would
likely be able to survive for 200 years. Something to note, ecology
involves a lot of math, so if you're interested in
this, that's just the way it is. So that's the small population
approach to conservation. Another way of preserving
biodiversity focuses on populations whose
numbers are in decline, no matter how large the
original population was. This is known as declining
population conservation and it involves answering a
series of related questions that get the root of what's
causing an organism's numbers to nosedive. First you have to determine
whether the population's actually declining, then
you have to figure out how big the population historically was and what its requirements were,
and finally you have to get at what's causing the decline and figure out how to address it. Milltown Dam actually
gives us a good example of this process in the winter of 1996 authorities had to release
some of the water behind the dam, as an emergency measure
because of a big ice flow in the river that was
threatening to break the dam. But when they released
the water, a bunch of toxic sediment went with
it, which raised the copper concentrations downriver
to almost 43 times what state standards allowed. As a result, it's
estimated that about half of the fish downstream died. Half of the fish.
Dead. And researches have been
monitoring the decline in populations ever since. This information was really
helpful in determining what to do with the dam
because we knew what the fish population was
like before and after the release of the sediment. It was decided that it
would be best to get the dam out as soon as possible, rather than risk another 1996 scenario. Which brings me to place
where conservation biology and restoration ecology intersect. Restoration ecology is
kinda where the rubber meets the road in conservation biology. It comes up with possible
solutions for ecological problems. Now, short of a time machine, which I'm working on, you can't really get a
natural environment exactly the way that it used to be. But you can at least get
rid of whatever's causing the problem and help
recreate some of the elements that the ecosystem needs
to function properly. All of this involves a
whole suite of strategies. For instance, what's happening
in Milltown is an example of structural restoration. Basically the removal and
clean up of whatever human impact was causing the
problem, in this case the dam and the toxic sediments behind it. And then the rebuilding of the
historical natural structure. Here, the meanders of the river
channel and the vegetation. Another strategy is
bioremediation, which recruits organisms temporarily
to help remove toxins, like bacteria that eat wastes
or plants that leech out metals from tainted soils, some
kinds of fungi and bacteria are even being explored as ways
to bioremediate oil spills. Yet another, somewhat more
invasive restoration method is biological augmentation. Rather than removing harmful
substances, this involves adding organisms to the
ecosystem to restore materials that are gone. Plants that help fix nitrogen
like beans, acacia trees and lupine are often used to
replenish nitrogen in soils that have been damaged
by things like mining or over farming, and ecologists sometimes add mycorrhizal fungi to help new plantings like native grass take hold. But of course we're just
humans, and we're not as smart as millions of years of evolution. Sometimes we get things
wrong, for example when you bring an invasive species
into a place to a place to eradicate another invasive species, sometimes you just end up
with two invasive species on your hands, which collapses the
ecosystem even more rapidly. The introduction of cane toads
to Australia in the 1930s to control beetles is a
particularly infamous example. Not only are they everywhere
now, but because they're toxic, they're poisoning native
species like dingoes that try to eat them. Nice. So you know what? I have an idea. After spending the last
couple of weeks talking about ecological problems, I've
come to the conclusion that it's just easier
to protect ecosystems rather than trying to fix them. Because we know a lot about
what makes ecosystems tick, so if we spend more time
trying to save them from us, and our stuff, we'll spend
less time cleaning up after ourselves and running
the risks of getting it wrong. Because as we all know, the sad fact is, uncooking bacon is impossible. But we can eat it. Thank you for joining me
on this quick three month jaunt through the natural world. I hope it made you smarter,
not just in terms of passing your exams, but also in
terms of being a homo sapien that inhabits this planet more wisely.