(bright music) - [Steven] We're in San Carlino, San Carlo at the Four Fountains, in Rome. This magnificent tiny church designed by the Baroque architect Borromini. - [Beth] This church is so unexpected when you walk inside. The walls, move in and out, they undulate. - [Steven] Everything is
about movement in this church. Every architectural form seems to move. The rhythms created by the
columns seem at such odds with the sense of stability that architecture
generally tries to express. - [Beth] You have these engaged columns, alternating with niches, and we see curving
rectangular panels and arches and all of this draws our
eye up to this amazing dome, but it's not the kind of dome we expect. It's not a perfect hemisphere. It's an oval. And the church itself is based on an oval, which you don't immediately
recognize when you walk in. - [Steven] Borromini
received this commission from the Trinitarian Order, an order that was dedicated
to ransoming Christians that had been taken in war or by pirates. - [Beth] But the Trinitarians
had very little money and most of this church is made out of very inexpensive materials. It's made out of stucco. - [Steven] Which is a
little bit like plaster. It's a soft cement that's easy to carve. - [Beth] As we're standing
here, the door opens and closes, and you can hear the traffic of the city of Rome
right outside the door. - [Steven] And it's a reminder of just how small a plot
Borromini had to work with in designing this church. Now for all of its musicality,
for all of its movement, for all of its energy, the
church is actually based on a careful geometric structure. - [Beth] There are two triangles that share one side and
within each of those triangles are circles and those circles
are inscribed within an oval and that oval is the primary
shape of the floor plan and the dome above. - [Steven] And the two triangles
together form a diamond. The opposite points of that diamond define the ends of the lobes, on one side the apse, and on
the other side, the entrance. - [Beth] So we have
this feeling of movement of a space that is
difficult to understand. - [Steven] But the importance of geometry becomes apparent when we look up to this marvelous lobed entablature, above that, we see these
arches that stretch and deform as they span this complicated shape. Above that is a dome. - [Beth] We see hexagons,
octagons, crosses, and at the very center, another oval. - [Steven] And at the very top, we see a dove within a triangle, a symbol of the Holy Spirit, part of the three-part nature of God, which couldn't be clearer
set within that triangle. - [Beth] And of course the
order that commissioned this, the Trinitarians, focus their
devotion on the Holy Trinity. The light in that lantern
reads as supernatural light. When you stand in the
center of the church, you don't see those windows, but it looks as though
the light is pouring down to the earthly below from this spiritual
divine miraculous source. - [Steven] So the whole
church is a metaphor. The complexity in the lower
section of the church, reaching a clarity and perfection as we look up towards the heavens. - [Beth] Well, this idea that a divine geometry underlies what seems like a kind
of chaos of the earthly, the idea of God as the divine geometer. And just before this church was built, Johannes Kepler wrote about how the universe was structured
by the laws of geometry. And so we get a sense of the movement, the chaos of the earthly, but underlying that, an
order that is created by God. - [Steven] One recent art historical study sees a relationship between the
complex lobing of the church and the medieval use of the mandorla. That is a kind of full-body halo in which Christ is often represented. - [Beth] So although when
we look around the church, we recognized the forms
Cf classical architecture, attached columns, coffers with rosettes, an entablature, a dome. Underlying those are
important theological ideas. Let's go outside and look at the exterior. - [Steven] We've stepped outside into the heavy traffic of Rome, looking at the outside of San Carlino. It could use a cleaning,
and just like the inside, every architectural element
on the exterior is in motion. Four large columns stand
in front of a surface that undulates inward and then outward, and then inward again. So you have this concave,
convex, concave undulation. - [Beth] And above that, we
see three concave spaces. Although the central
space projects outward because of the medallion held
aloft by angels in the center. - [Steven] Just look at the entablature and the cornice above it. It's as if it's the waves of the ocean and the columns function
almost like pivot points that allow the building
to move in and out. - [Beth] You know, we think
about representing movement in sculpture with something
like Bernini's David, but here Borromini takes on
movement in architecture. (upbeat music)