- My name is Charu Clark
and I'm a lighter at Pixar. I wanted to tell you about
some of the lighting techniques we use in our films. But first we should clarify
something that confuses a lot of people, including my parents. Computer animated films use
lights and lighters just like any other film. In a live action set like
this one, everything you see is illuminated by some
kind of light source. If there's no light,
you don't see anything. It's exactly the same in our films. The difference is that our
lights are virtual digital lights just like the characters
and the virtual camera. This means that we do get
complete control over the light, which is super cool because
we use light to evoke very specific mood and story
points in every single shot in a movie. One critical aspect of lighting
in our films is choosing the light intensity and size. A larger light will create a
softer more diffused image, softer shadows, whereas a
harsher more focused light source can create more tension in a shot. Another very critical aspect
of light is its color which is measured in temperature. A cooler, bluer light can
create a cold feeling, whereas a warm, soft more
orange light can create a friendlier, open atmosphere. Another technique is the
directionality of light, where you put the light in a scene. A front lit character can appear
more open and approachable, a character who's back lit
can appear dark and dangerous. A bottom lit character can appear spooky. If they're top lit they
can feel like they're being interrogated. We use all of these lighting
techniques to heighten both the look and
emotional aspect of a shot. Here for example are some
shots from Incredibles 2. You notice we use two very
different lighting setups. In the first instance, Violet
approaches Tony and realizes he has forgotten about their
date and barely remembers her, now this is a very
common scene, a long sterile hallway with a line up of lockers. The light sources are blue
overhead fluorescent lights that makes a hallway feel
like a sterile almost hospital-like environment
and makes the audience feel unsettled and uncomfortable. Similar to what Violet is feeling. Now contrast this with later
in the film where Violet and Tony interact in
a stairwell at school. It's a happier moment and
the two of them make a new connection, the main light
source is a warm and soft outdoor sun filtering
in through the trees. The lighting feels friendly
and keep in with the emotional state of the characters. That's the emotional story
point and we want to feel it in every aspect including the lighting.