- [Instructor] Our world is
extraordinarily complicated. So in physics we're going to
have to make simplifications. Even things in our world that seems simple are extraordinarily complicated. So consider a basketball
seems simple enough, but it's composed of an
extraordinarily large number of air molecules bouncing
around inside, colliding with the outside leather
and rubber membrane, which itself is composed of an
extraordinarily large number of atoms and molecules all bonded together holding on tight, trying
to prevent themselves from being ripped apart and
exploded by the pressure inside. So do we have to keep track
of every atom and molecule in this ball to include
it in a physics problem? Typically not, nor would
we ever really want to. I mean, we can't keep track
of all that info, not yet, nor would you want to for most scenarios. So for instance, if you were an astronaut, you went to the moon, you took your basketball and
you were going to drop it. If all you wanted to know
was how long it's gonna take for this ball to strike
the lunar surface below, you don't need to know
about the ideal gas law, you don't need to know about
the structural integrity of the rubber leather membrane. You could solve this by
treating the basketball as if there was no internal
structure whatsoever. Like you were dropping a rock that had no interesting internal
structure whatsoever. So in physics, the good
news is we can typically get away with making a lot of simplifications and ignoring the internal structure if it isn't relevant to the
problem that we're asking. Sometimes it will be relevant though. So here was a case where
it wasn't relevant. The internal structure wasn't relevant. So we could ignore that
internal structure, but other questions like
if you were an astronaut, I mean if I was an
astronaut, and I was bringing my basketball to the moon,
I'd be like, wait a minute, there's no atmosphere on the moon. That means there is no pressure
pushing in from the outside. That means all this air
pressure's still pushing out from the inside is my
basketball just gonna explode? I'd want to know this before
I brought it out there. I don't wanna carry a little bomb out that's going to like blow up in my face and I don't want to lose a basketball. If you wanted to know if your basketball was going to explode,
okay now it does depend. That question does depend
on the internal structure. It depends on the pressure inside which is fundamentally related to the force of the collisions
between these air molecules and the rubber membrane and
then it depends also on, well, how strong are the bonds
between these rubber membrane and leather molecules? How much force can they
withstand before they burst? For that question you
would have to consider the internal structure. So, in some questions you get to ignore the internal structure and
other questions you don't. It's just context and question-dependent and in physics, we have
terminology to sort of sort this out and the
terminology we use is the idea of a system or the idea of an object. So the idea of a system
is just a collection of objects, that's the definition
of a system in physics. But that begs the question, well what do we mean by an object? By an object, we mean
anything that you could treat as if it had no internal structure. We don't mean that objects
have no internal structure. They typically do, the only
things that don't truly have an internal structures
as far as we know are truly fundamental particles
like electrons or neutrinos, these fundamental particles
in particle physics that as far as we know,
have no internal structure. So unless you're doing particle physics, you're probably don't have a true object, but you can treat things like an object. We can treat this
basketball like an object. That is to say, we can act as if it has no internal structure if
that internal structure isn't relevant to the problem. So to make this a little more meaningful just imagine another example. Say you collide two objects
so you collide a putty here. Let's say this is three kilogram object and it comes in with a certain speed and it collides with a
five kilogram object. If all you want to know is
when they stick together, say these stick together and move off with some common speed. If all you want to know is
what is that common speed that they move off with
after they stick together? Notice what you don't need to know. I don't need to tell
you that this was made out of gold here or that this
one was made out of copper as long as you know, the masses and that they stick together,
physics will let you solve for how fast they'll move off
with a common speed afterward if you tell me that they stick together. So if that's all you want to know doesn't matter what the
internal structure is. However, for other questions,
if you wanted to know if this was going to set off
some nuclear explosion, okay well then it really is going
to matter if these are made out of gold, made out of
copper, made out of clay or if they're made out
of uranium, so to speak. So for that question, you do need to know about the internal structure. So the idea of a system and the idea of an object is an
important one in physics and it's not just important
conceptually or abstractly it can actually help
you in problem solving. So let me show you a more
like, tangible example of where this might help you in solving a problem you might encounter in your physics courses. So let's say they're two boxes and they're just too big
and unwieldy to handle. So you're going to push
them across the floor. They're not heavy, they're just
like shaped weird, let's say and let's say the floor
has been newly waxed. So it's real slick against these boxes which are also slick and
there's negligible friction. You could ignore the
friction between the boxes and the floor, so let's say you come up and you're gonna push on these things. Push them into the
corner of some warehouse, you're working in the
warehouse here, earning your pay for the day
and you're going to go push these over here and
you're going to exert, let's just say nine newtons of force on this one kilogram
box and then that pushes into the two kilogram box and they move off to the right. So can we treat this system of boxes as if it were a single object? Well, like we said,
it's question-dependent. If the question we want to ask
is, what's the acceleration of these boxes as they slide to the right? Well, they're going to
move at the same rate because as you push on
this one kilogram box that one kilogram box pushes
on the two kilogram box and they're going to move together. As I keep pushing with nine
newtons, the velocity of both of these boxes are going
to be the same to the right and the acceleration of the boxes are going to be the same to the right. They're never going to become separated. What that means is the fact
that there were two boxes didn't matter, I can treat
this system of two boxes as if it were a single three kilogram box. I don't even need to know
that they were actually a division here, 'cause
they're never going to become separated for this question
that I'm asking here. So I could treat this whole system as if it were just one
big three kilogram object and this is an important idea. The properties of a system, like the mass of the
system, are determined by the properties of the
objects in that system. So I put a three here and this
is legal, this is allowed. The properties of this total
mass of my system is determined by the mass of the individual
objects in my system. So you really can just add up these masses to determine the total mass of the system that you're going to be
treating as a single object. And now that I get to treat
this as a single object I'm in luck, I can use
Newton's second law. The acceleration is going
to equal the net force over the mass, we'll do this
for the horizontal direction. I'm just going to put a mass of three. I could ignore the fact
that this was a one and two and the total mass of
my system is going to be three kilograms and the
only force on my system that I'm treating as an object here is the nine Newton force. I could ignore, in other words, I can ignore the internal
forces between these boxes. I don't care about the
one pushing on the two or the two pushing on the
one I'm treating the system like an object and I'm ignoring
that internal structure that makes this problem really easy when I solve for the acceleration I just get three meters
per second squared. So for this question I
could treat the system as a single object. What question would I not
be able to treat the system as a single object for? Well, if I wanted to know,
let's say the question was with how much force does
the one kilogram box exert on the two kilogram box? And you might think, oh,
it's just nine, but it isn't. So stay tuned, hold on. It's counterintuitive. I know, but the main idea I'm
trying to stress here is that this force on two
by one is fundamentally a question about an internal force. So if the question you're asking is about the internal structure,
clearly you're not allowed to ignore the internal structure. So for this question we
cannot treat the system of two boxes as if it were a single mass. We'll have to focus on
the internal structure. So again, consider this a
one and a two separate boxes and we'll do the same formula. Acceleration's going to equal
the net force over the mass, but this time we do have
to focus on a single mass. So we'll focus just on
the two kilogram mass the only horizontal force
on this two kilogram mass if this really is frictionless is this force that we want to
find the force onto by one. And that's the only force that's exerted on the two kilogram mass. This nine newtons is
exerted directly on the one. So it's not directly exerted on the two. We don't draw that up here. We don't include that here. These are only forces
directly on the two, and then we'd have to put the acceleration
of the two kilogram mass, but we already found that this
three was the acceleration of the one, the two and the entire system. Everything was accelerating
at the same rate. So I can put my three meters
per second squared here and I find out that the force exerted on the two by the one is six newtons. So it's not as big and
this isn't surprising. It takes more newtons from the left here this nine newtons to
accelerate the entire system of three kilograms than it does to just accelerate the two
kilogram mass over here. So the fact that this force
is accelerating less mass means it doesn't have to be as big. But the key idea is that to find that, we could not treat, to
find this force here, we could not treat this entire
system as a single mass. So recapping, if the question
being asked does not depend on the internal structure,
you can simplify your life by treating that structure and that system as if it were a single
object, in which case, the properties of that will be determined by the properties of the
objects in that system. But if the question being
asked does depend on the internal structure,
then you cannot treat that system as a single object. You will have to focus on
the internal structure.