- [Instructor] You know what a magnet is, but did you know that some
magnets can be turned on and off? One type of temporary magnet
is called an electromagnet. So what is electromagnetism? Well, the hint is in the name itself. Electro for electrical, and magnet for, well, magnet. Let's take a moment to
look at the definition of what an electromagnet is. Electromagnets are materials
that become magnets in the presence of electricity. But how does that even happen? Well, it turns out that electrically-charged
particles in motion actually have small
magnetic fields around them. So, if we run electricity through a wire, a magnetic field will be
created around the wire. Now, we can control the
strength of this magnetic field in a couple of ways. We can move more electric
charges through the wire at a faster rate, and we do this by increasing
the electrical current. The second way is to increase the density of the charged particles, and we can do this by
looping the wire into a coil. This gives us more charged particles with magnetic fields in a small space, strengthening the magnetic force. The other thing we can
control with electromagnets is the direction of the magnetic field, and we can do this by
changing the direction of the electricity. So if we go back to this
wire example from earlier and change the direction of the electricity
running through that wire, well, the magnetic fields
will also change direction. This makes electromagnets quite different from permanent magnets. So let's take a look at that and compare permanent
magnets to electromagnets. Electromagnets are typically made of loops of wire and a coil. The wire is typically
made of metal like copper and wrapped around pieces of metal like iron, nickel, or cobalt. This is different from a permanent magnet because permanent magnets
don't need this wire. Permanent magnets also have fixed poles. You can't change the north and
south poles on these magnets, but as we now know, for electromagnets, we can change these poles
by changing the direction of the electrical current. So, if we have an electromagnet
with a north and south pole that looks like this and a current flowing in this direction, well, we can change the poles and the direction of the current. Permanent magnets have a fixed strength, but we just talked about how we can change the
strength of electromagnets, so electromagnets have
adjustable strength. And finally, electromagnets
need a power source in order to generate
the electricity required to produce magnetic fields. Permanent magnets do
not need a power source, but this means that we can
also turn electromagnets on and off, which is pretty cool
when you think about it. On the other hand, permanent magnets are always on. Now, you might be thinking if electrical charge can affect magnetism, can magnetism affect electrical charge? Absolutely, let's look
at how we can do that. The only way to do this is by
changing the magnetic field around the charged particles. This can be done by moving magnets closer or further away from the particles or by spinning the magnets. In fact, spinning magnets is
how most of the electricity we use in cities and homes is generated. A turbine spins a magnet inside a coil to produce electricity, and since electromagnets
need a power source, this turbine is powered by wind. So you can see why electromagnetism is an incredibly important force, and this isn't the only
important application of it. We use electromagnets in all
sorts of other applications, from motors to speakers
and even medical scanners.