All right. So now we're going to
create the holes to mount our batteries and
our control boards and our camera and
our motor controller. And so we're marking the
holes for our battery now, and the holes for the
batteries and the motors basically allow zip
ties to come through. And they don't have
to be super precise. You can sort of eye those
and get pretty close. So we're using about a quarter
inch drill bit-- and time lapse that so you could see
all the holes there. And now we're just
drawing a line to kind of connect the holes
that are going to our motor so we can use that
as a reference point for lining up our boards
and things of that nature. And we'll put
another line there. So we've got all
our components here. We've got our camera,
our motor controller, and of course the Arduino, and
the outer housing and the Lexan below. And so we're trying
to find a way to orient all of
these on the board and see if we can make
them fit together. So we'll put the Lexan in place. We're going to put our
batteries underneath, and our motor, of
course, goes on the side. So we're just trying to get a
feel for how these things are going to fit together, and
we're just positioning them on the Lexan. And so we've got
the camera there, and I think we're going to turn
the camera the other direction. It's got some rounder
corners, which tend to line up better with
the edge in that direction. And then we could put the
Arduino in this direction so that the USB is the same
side as the camera's USB, and then put maybe
the motor controller on top of the camera. So I think that's how
we're going to lay it out. And we've also got
a recording module. It's a little voice module
you can get from Radio Shack, and we're going to put
that-- we're not sure where we're going
to put that yet, but we know we can mount that
in a lot of different places. So right now, we'll just sort
of set it on top of the Arduino and get a feel for the space. So we're going to
line up our Arduino and try and line it up
with those horizontal lines that we created so
that it follows that. And then we're going to
just outline the Arduino, and the outline
kind of just helps us to make sure that
it doesn't shift around as we're drawing the
center marks for our holes that we're going to use
to put our screws in, and that'll hold the Arduino
off of the Lexan top there. So it doesn't look like
we're lining the marks up, but we are. It's just the angle
of the camera. The marks are directly
over each hole. Really important, again, that
those are lined up precisely, because the screws
are very small and the holes are very small. They're not like the zip ties. They have to be pretty precise,
otherwise it just won't fit. So you can see our screw
here that we've got. It's a 2-56 machine screw,
round-head machine screw. You can get these
at Radio Shack. I believe they're nickel plated. And they fit nicely through the
Arduino hole and also the holes in our camera that
already exists. So we don't have to
make any new holes, but we do need to use a
drill bit that is just slightly larger than the
threads on the screw, and in this case, that's
about 1/16 of an inch bit. So we've already got our
holes for the Arduino marked. We're going to drill those
out and then just knock off the plastic shavings. We're marking our camera here. And again, it's very important
that the screws line up perfectly, mostly because
the holes in the camera and in the Arduino for
the screws are very small. And we're using our
1/16 bit to drill out the holes for the camera. So now we're just
positioning our Arduino. We're going to put our camera
on there so we can create some new holes, and we're
going to locate the holes for our motors, so those
are motor wire holes. And then we're going to put
a hole for our on-off switch. We're going to find
the location for that. And these are not
super critical. I mean, you can put
these holes in any place. This is the hole for
our battery power. And then we're going to put a
couple random holes for wires, so we're going to
put a hole here and here for wires, and
then one up at the top there for wires as well. We may want to route wires
in different locations. And we're just marking that
that's the front of the bot there. OK. So now we're going to take
out our on-off switch, and we're going to look at
the size of the threaded shaft there and compare
it to a drill bit, make sure that our drill
bit is the same size as the threaded shaft
with the threads so that we can fit the on-off
switch through the mounting hole very easily. So again, very important
that that's pretty precise. So we'll drill that hole
to mount the switch. And then we'll also
finish the other holes. And this is what the final
piece of Lexan looks like. You can see the whole
configuration there. Yours may differ slightly. Obviously, if you choose
different components, the holes will be in
different locations. So now we're going
to connect our Lexan piece to our styrene outer
surround housing or chassis, and we're going to use
the original screws that came with the tap light to
go back through the Lexan and connect to the
styrene housing. So double-checking our
holes and our placements for our camera in
the Arduino there, and then we'll put
all our screws in. So it's important not to
overtighten these screws, because they will strip
out in that soft styrene. So we're ready now for our
next video, which will show us how to connect all
the different parts.