(jazzy piano music) - [Steven] We're in the
National Museum of Art in Mexico City and we're looking at an
amazing, very large canvas by José María Velasco. It is this panoramic image
of the Valley of Mexico. - [Lauren] The painting is about the land. - [Steven] And about
the history of the land. In the center, and slightly to the right, we see Mexico City itself. It can be barely seen
but it's clear enough so that we can just make out the towers of the Cathedral of Mexico City. - [Lauren] José María
Velasco is using light and shadow to guide our eye in this wonderful zigzag
motion so that we recede from the foreground all
the way into the back to the city itself. - [Steven] So let's talk
about how we get there. In the very foreground we have
this incredible specificity, and this is an artist who's
known to take real care with botanical and
meteorological phenomena so he's studying plants,
he's studying the geology, and he's studying cloud formations trying to get this right. But our eye first lands
on this little vignette of a mother and two
children who seem to be walking away from the city,
walking back into nature. - [Lauren] There's this dramatic shadow that starts in the
bottom right hand corner that arches its way across the foreground that helps lead our eye around the light so that we go around
this foreground precipice and then we begin to find
our way to the middle ground to where we first see structures that are associated with the Hill of Tepeyac where the Basilica to the
Virgin of Guadalupe is where she miraculously
appeared to Juan Diego in 1531. - [Steven] One of the
great spiritual moments, and one of the great
spiritual places in Mexico. So this painting is in
some ways a celebration of great moments in Mexican history and its spiritual roots. - [Woman] And then beyond that we're seeing roads that are in part the ancient Aztec causeway that lead us to the heart of Mexico City, and we see some of the
effects of industrialization but only hints of it. Dust, maybe, being kicked up by machinery or by carriages. All of this is set
against the receding lake. - [Steven] A lake that had
once surrounded the city that we see in the distance
when it was the Aztec capitol but is now being pushed off
by increasing development. And so we see this transitory moment not only in terms of human development but also in terms of the
formations of the sky. We see clouds, we see a
rainstorm off to the right, that beautifully balance
the two volcanic peaks that we see on the left. - [Lauren] And those volcanic peaks are important to the history of Mexico. They are the volcanoes
Popocatepatl and Iztaccihuatl, thought to have been
related to two individuals, two lovers from the Aztec period, so they were important to
the mythohistory of Mexico. - [Steven] So even as this
is a celebration of Mexico, its present, its history, its mythology, it's also very much a
painting of the 19th century. This is a painting that is deeply informed by the Romanticism of people
like John Constable in England or Casper David Friedrich in Germany. This is an international movement that is looking back to
nature in all of its grandeur, the way in which it can
evoke a spiritual power but at an historical moment that is interested in the scientific. - [Lauren] And I think that's
where it begins to depart more from those Romantic
qualities of the landscape. José María Velasco was interested in the scientific observation of nature to try to make it as exact as possible. So he's painting this as a member of the Academy of San Carlos,
this academic institution here in Mexico City, and
his teacher is actually an Italian immigrant who
is training and teaching landscape painting. - [Steven] One of the
techniques that the artist uses is to paint this in a
studio so that he can get the exact detail that he wants in a controlled circumstance,
but to base the painting on numerous sketches that
he does in the landscape. And we're fortunate to
have some of the sketches that he produced while
hiking in these mountains. - [Lauren] And this is
one of numerous paintings that the artist completed that show the Valley of
Mexico from this perspective, and in fact as we stand in the gallery, we can see some of these other paintings, including another from almost
the same vantage point, but in this one from a
slightly different angle, a bit higher up, but we
don't have any human figures. - [Steven] Instead in the
foreground we see an eagle that seems to have just
flown off a cactus. In Mexico, this is potent imagery. - [Lauren] It could just be
an eagle flying off a cactus, but for Mexican history this is related to the Aztec migration story where they ended up
establishing their capital city of Tenochtitlan or modern day Mexico City on an island in the middle of the lake after they saw an eagle
perched atop a cactus. - [Steven] And this
symbol is a central emblem of the Mexican flag, can be
found on Mexican currency, and remains an important
way in which modern Mexico ties itself back to its Aztec origins. - [Lauren] And so how we can
understand these paintings by José María Velasco is in part due to this increasing urgency for a Mexican national identity that has been ongoing
since independence in 1821. (jazzy piano music)