OK, so we got our motors clean. The wires are
removed and they're ready to be soldered
with new wires. We selected 18
gauge wire-- I think that's probably enough
for what we're doing. And we're going to determine how
much wire we need by feeding it through our holes
here and then-- the wire's going to need to run
to our motor controller here. So the motor controller is
going to be in this location, and we'll probably
mount it like that. So on this side,
the wire doesn't need to be very long at all. On this side it's going
to need to be longer. So that'll be one length
that we're going to need, and it's a little bit
longer than the wires that we had before. But these wires are smaller,
and they'll be easier for us to route. And they're solid
copper, so they can conduct a fair
amount of current if they need to--
certainly rated for what we're
going to be doing. I'm going to bend the
wire around like this, and that way I can hook
it around the contact for the motor. So I'm using 60/40
rosin core solder. I like the rosin core because
it tends to stick better. There we go. Just want to make sure that
the solder is completely surrounding the copper. And a good way to do that
is to just heat the copper, and the solder
will flow over it. There we go. Oops, that one moved
just a little bit. That's OK. So you can see that
there's a complete contact with the hairdryer motor. Closest to the motor, pull the
zip tie around and feed it back through the hole
on the other side. These zip ties are actually way
longer than they need to be. I kind of prefer long
zip ties, because it means that you can use
them on more things. But you can use much shorter
ones, and they are cheaper. Remember, we cut those
little flanges out of the bottom of those. All right, there we go. I want to make sure
that's lined up well. This little one doesn't want
to quite work into the place that we want it to go, so
we'll take the zip tie and try and pry it over. Sometimes these
things can be tricky. Let's see if we can get this. We may need to loosen
it just a little bit. One thing I think
we might want to do is, just to make sure
that the zip tie has good contact with the motor,
it might be OK like that. I think it might
be OK like that. We'll give it a shot. We may need to file down these
two pieces right here later. And it's pretty tough stuff, so
it's kind of hard to snap off, but there we go. Got it. So this will be our shim. Hopefully it's not too big. Looks like it
might be, actually. I think it'll be all right. So those are in, let's
double-check the wheel turns freely. And it's in there pretty good. Looks pretty decent
and seems like it can support a
little bit of load, so we'll go ahead and
trim off these guys. And now that it's in
there, may try and just give it a little bit more. So now we do the other
side-- this guy here. Woo! OK, so we have our
motors in place.