(piano jazz music) - [Female Narrator] We're
in probably the most crowded gallery at the Uffizi here in in Florence. This is the room that
contains Botticelli's fabulously beautiful Birth of Venus. - [Male Narrator] And you can
hear the hub-bub around us. But it's interesting that the Birth of Venus is a painting that we actually know very little about. We don't know who it was painted for. We don't know where it was
originally intended to be seen, the subject, a full length, nude female is highly unusual especially
for the 15th century. - [Female Narrator] We do
see nudes in medieval art and even in renaissance art before this. But the nudes are usually Adam and Eve. - [Male Narrator] And
beginning in the 15th century artists do begin to
experiment with introducing heroic male nudity within
a biblical context. Think for instance of Donatello's David. But here we have something exceptional. This is an almost life-size,
full-length, female nude. That is fully pagan in its subject matter. - [Female Narrator] Pagan and undoubtedly the Goddess of love. Although the artists of the
renaissance are looking back to ancient Greek and Roman sculpture many of which were nudes, they've in the past transformed them into a Christian biblical subject. Here Venus remains Venus. - [Male Narrator] In fact
nudity in Christian art was often an expression
of something traumatic. We see Christ almost nude on the cross. Or we see the sinful being led into hell. What makes this painting so exceptional is that it is perhaps one of the first almost life size
representations of a female nude that is fully mythological
in its subject matter. - [Female Narrator] She covers
her body very much the way Eve covered hers when she was expelled from the Garden of Eden but here we have a gesture of modesty. Not one of shame. Venus floats on a seashell. She's born from the sea. - [Male Narrator] And because we're talking about classical mythology she can be born fully grown. - [Female Narrator] And here she is blown by the west wind Zephr and we see his body entwined with the body of Chloris. - [Male Narrator] On the
right we see an attendant who is ready to wrap the newborn goddess. Although all of these
figure clearly represent Botticelli's incredibly
sophisticated understanding of the human body. Look at the wonderful sway of Venus. Or the complex intertwining of
the two figures on the left. And despite the fact that
we see a very deep space the canvas feels flat. And this is the result
of a number of things. For one thing, the emphasis on pattern. Botticelli has strewn the
left side of the canvas with flowers which are very
close to the foreground. On the right side, we have
flowers again but now, they're part of the dress
worn by the attendant and part of the cloth that she carries. The rhythmic alteration of light and dark in the scallop shell seems to push the back forward. And even the little v's that
refer to the waves of the sea create a sense of two dimensionality. So that the entire canvas, although depicting a deep space is also so heavily patterned that it reminds us of its
own two dimensionality. - [Female Narrator] And the figures all occupy the same plane. That is one figure isn't behind another or deeper in space than another and so it does read very flatly but I would also argue that
although Botticelli does have an understanding of human anatomy and we can see that clearly
in the body of Venus or in the figure of the west wind, or the way that we see the drapery wrapping around the figure
of the nymph on the right the figures are weightless, they don't stand firmly on the ground the way that often expect renaissance figures to stand and the figure of Venus
forms this serpentine shape that actually I think would
be an impossible to stand. - [Male Narrator] Certainly
when you're surfing to shore on a seashell. Look for example, the way that the artist has
highlighted her golden hair with actual lines of gold. Gold that also appears in the
foliage to the upper right and can be seen in the trunks of the trees that form the grove at the right. - [Female Narrator] Venus
tilts her head slightly, her hair blows in the wind and surround the curve of her body and is brought down in front of her to cover her modestly. Although there may be
meaning behind this painting that connects classical mythology
to certain Christian ideas via a philosophy called Neoplatonism, what we're looking at essentially is still a beautiful and erotic image. This is a celebration of
both beauty and of love. And we can think about that
in both a secular context and a Christian one. (piano jazz outro)