Here's the reaction for
the sulfonation of benzene. So over here we have
benzene, and to that we add some sulfuric acid. And so we would form benzene
sulfonic acid and also water as a byproduct. Since this reaction
is at equilibrium, we can shift the
equilibrium by using the different concentrations
of sulfuric acid. If we use concentrated
sulfuric acid, we would of course
shift the equilibrium to the right to make it
more benzene sulfonic acid. If we use more
dilute sulfuric acid, so we have more water here,
that would shift the equilibrium to the left. And so the fact that this
is a reversible reaction is sometimes used in
synthesis problems. So let's take a look
at the mechanism to put an SO3H group
onto our benzene ring. And so here I have two
molecules of sulfuric acid. And one of these
molecules is going to function as an
acid and one of these is going to function
as a base actually. So I'm going to say
the one on the right is going to function as an acid. It's going to donate a proton. And the molecule on the left
is going to function as a base and accept a proton. So if this lone pair of
electrons accepts a proton, takes that proton, that
would leave these electrons behind on to that oxygen. So let's go ahead and show
the result of that acid base reaction. So we have sulfur double
bonded to an oxygen. We have an OH group
over here on the left. And then over here
on the right, we've now protonated this oxygen
over here on the right. So it actually has a
plus 1 formal charge now. So if you follow
those electrons, these electrons right in here
are going to form this bond and give us a plus 1 formal
charge on that oxygen. So for the other
sulfuric acid molecule, the one that functioned
as an acid here, it's going to lose a proton. So we're going to be left
with the conjugate base, which is HSO4 minus-- so over
here we would have HSO4 minus the negative 1 charge on
our oxygen, our OH over here. And so if we follow
those electrons, I'm just going to go
ahead and make them red. So these electrons
right in here are going to come off onto this
oxygen, giving us HSO4 minus. So let's go back to
the protonated version of sulfuric acid over here. And we can see that there is a
water molecule hiding over here that is a very
good leaving group. So this is a similar mechanism
in that respect to what we saw in the last video for
the mechanism on nitration. And so we have water, which
is a good leaving group. And so we can have
these electrons move in here, which would kick these
electrons off onto the oxygen. And of course, now we have
H2O as our leaving group. So over here on
the right, water's going to come off like that. And once again, we can
follow some electrons. I can say that these
electrons in here in blue come off onto the
oxygen giving us water. And if we think about what
else is formed-- so we still have sulfur double bonded to an
oxygen and sulfur double bonded to another oxygen. And now actually,
we're going to have sulfur double bonded to
the third oxygen here. And this third oxygen
still has a hydrogen on it. It still has a lone
pair of electrons, and it has a plus 1
formal charge on it now. So let's go ahead and
follow those electrons. So I'm going to make
these in green here. I'm going to say those
electrons in green move in here to form a
pi bond like that between the sulfur
and the oxygen. And so this is really
a protonated version of the sulfur trioxide
molecule, or SO3. And the sulfur is actually the
electrophilic part of this ion. And it's not immediately
obvious looking at how I've drawn it here. But if we think about the oxygen
being more electronegative than the sulfur, we could think
about a resonant structure for this where the
electrons in green come back onto the oxygen. And therefore, that's taking
a bond away from that sulfur. And so we could draw it like
this, where we have the oxygen now having two lone
pairs of electrons. And since I took a bond
away from that sulfur, that sulfur now has a plus 1
formal charge on it like that. So this is a little
bit more obvious that the sulfur is the
electrophilic portion. So this is now our electrophile. The sulfur is the one that
is electron deficient. And so you could think about
this version on the left, or you could think about
this version on the right. It doesn't really matter
which one you think about. The sulfur is electron
deficient in both of those resonant structures. OK. So I'm actually going to use
the version on the right here. So I'm actually going to redraw
this protonated version of SO3 for the next part
of our mechanism. So that's where the
protonated version of SO3 reacts with our benzene ring. And so I'm going to go ahead
and draw my benzene ring right here. And I'm just going to
redraw that protonated form. So here we have our protonated
form of sulfur trioxide. And once again, we
know that the sulfur is the electrophilic
portion of that ion. So we're going to
have the pi electrons function as a nucleophile. And that nucleophile is going
to attack our electrophile. So that's the
sulfur, which would kick these electrons in here
back off onto our oxygen. So if we show the results of
that nucleophilic attack-- so we would have these
pi electrons in our ring. We would have a
hydrogen on our ring. And now we would have
a bond to our sulfur. The sulfur is double
bonded to some oxygens. And there's also an OH over
here on the right like that. So let's once again
follow our electrons. These pi electrons in magenta
function as a nucleophile and form a bond between
that carbon and that sulfur. Taking a bond away
from this carbon, of course, means that carbon
gets a plus 1 formal charge. And so that is the
cation that results. Now, I could draw two
more resonance structures for this cation,
and we've seen how to do that in some of
the earlier videos. And so just to
save time, I'm not going to draw those
resonant structures. But this, of course, is going
to represent our sigma complex. And so the next step in
electrophilic aromatic substitution is deprotonation
of your sigma complex. And so you could think about
this water molecule functioning as a base. So this lone pair of electrons
coming along and taking that proton, leaving
these electrons behind to move in here to
reform your benzene ring. And so let's go ahead and
show the result of that. So we would reform our
aromatic ring here like that. And now we would, of course,
have SO3H as our group coming off of our benzene ring. And so we're done
with our reaction. If we show those
electrons, I'm going to go ahead and make those blue. So I'm saying these electrons
in blue here move in here to reform your benzene ring,
to form benzene sulfonic acid as your product. Now, I showed the water
molecule functioning as a base, take away that proton. Sometimes you'll see
textbooks-- if I go up here-- showing the HSO4 minus
anion functioning as a base to take that proton away to
regenerate your sulfuric acid catalyst, if you will. So that's just something
to think about. Water is probably a little bit
better based than HSO4 minus. So that's why I've shown
that in this example. But this reaction is very
dependent upon the conditions of the reaction. And so let's say you were to
do this reaction by adding some more sulfur trioxide in. So instead of the
protonated version of sulfur trioxide
being generated from the sulfuric
acid molecules itself, you could go ahead and start the
reaction with some more sulfur trioxide. So let me just go ahead and show
the sulfur trioxide molecule. So I'm showing it double bonded
to all of these oxygens here. And if you add that
to some sulfuric acid, the sulfuric acid
would, of course, donate a proton to
the sulfur trioxide. So let's go ahead and show
that as our first step here. So this lone pair
of electrons is going to pick up this
proton from sulfuric acid, leaving these electrons
behind on that oxygen. And so we can show
this acid base reaction where the sulfur trioxide
is now protonated. So we now have a
protonated version of sulfur trioxide like that. So once again,
following our electrons, these electrons
right in here-- I'm showing those taking this proton
for our protonated version of sulfur trioxide. And that would of
course form HSO4 minus as our conjugate
base to sulfuric acid. And then you could
think about this now reacting in our mechanism
exactly how we've shown it up here. So it doesn't really matter how
you get your protonated sulfur trioxide. This is just another
way to do it. And if you start with some
sulfur trioxide already present, you're
pretty much going to shift the equilibrium
all the way to the right. And so let's go ahead and
show that real fast here. So we have-- we're just
going to react benzene with sulfuric acid. But this time, we're going to
add in some sulfur trioxide as well. So we have SO3 and we
have H2SO4 as our catalyst to produce the protonated SO3. And that adds on to
your benzene ring to form benzene sulfonic
acid as your product. So once again, the
addition of the extra SO3 means that you would form a
higher yield of your product here. Now, in the mechanism
that I've shown you, I've showed you
the protonated SO3 functioning as
your electrophile. But the sulfonating agent
might just be SO3 on its own and not protonated SO3,
depending on different reaction conditions. And so you'll see
different mechanisms for sulfonations in
different textbooks. And so obviously, you
should use the one that your professor wants
you to use on any exam. And I've just shown you one
or two examples in this video.