In this video, we're going
to explore a little bit about the cell membrane. So just as a little
refresher, let's say this is a picture of our cell
with a little tiny nucleus in the middle. Our cell membrane is what's
on the outside of our cell, so our cell membrane is
what protects our cell from a really harsh
outside environment. If it weren't for
the cell membrane, we wouldn't be alive
today, because there would be nothing to protect
us from the outside world. So we're going to talk
about the main three things that make up the cell membrane--
the first, phospholipids, the second, cholesterol,
and the third, proteins. So the first one we're
going to talk about-- and this makes up the
majority of what's in our cell membrane--
are phospholipids. And just for the
sake of time, I've predrawn a picture of
the cell membrane here. And you'll notice that all
of these individual pieces are phospholipids, and a
phospholipid looks like this. It has that polar head group,
that polar phosphate group. And it has two fatty acid tails. And so this is the
way that we normally represent what a
phospholipid looks like. And in the cell
membrane, you can see that these phospholipids are
packed pretty closely, pretty tightly together, all
throughout the entire membrane. And we're looking
at this membrane. This is kind of like
a cross-section. You can imagine that we
cut the membrane in half. So what we have here
is actually what we call our
phospholipid bilayer, and sometimes it's also
called the lipid bilayer. The second thing that we
can find in our membrane is cholesterol. Now, we often hear cholesterol
in foods and cholesterol in our blood, and we
think it's a bad thing. But in this case
cholesterol is actually very important for
our cell membrane. And cholesterol looks like this. And again, just for
the sake of time, I've predrawn what
cholesterol looks like. And you'll notice that
cholesterol has a lot of rings, and this gives cholesterol
a pretty stable structure. And what cholesterol
does is cholesterol kind of inserts itself
between phospholipids, kind of like that. And the way I think
about it is cholesterol is kind of like a buffer. It maintains the fluidity
of our cell membranes. So as temperatures
become lower, cholesterol will help increase the fluidity. And as temperatures
become higher, cholesterol will help reduce the
fluidity of the cell membrane. So cholesterol keeps
our cell membrane in kind of a happy middle
ground of fluidity. And the third thing that
makes up our cell membrane are proteins, and proteins
are actually a big one. And depending on
the cell, some cells will actually have
a significant amount of protein in the membrane. And so proteins can
take two major forms. The first is you can
have a protein that crosses the entire membrane. We call this an
integral protein. We also can call this a
transmembrane protein. And this can occur throughout
different areas of the cell, like that. And some proteins actually kind
of sit on top of the membrane, like this. Or they might sit on
another protein, like that. And these are what we
call peripheral proteins. There are some
very rare proteins that actually can go halfway
through the membrane. And even rarer, there
are occasionally a few proteins that actually
can be found inside the cell membrane, like this,
between the two phospholipids
inside our bilayer. Now, proteins are
a very big player in the function
of cell membranes. They actually carry
out nearly all of the membrane processes
that we can think of. And the two biggest things
that proteins do is, the first, they can actually
act as receptors. So the proteins
can actually tell the cell what's going
on in the outside world. They act as communication. And the second thing
that proteins can do, which generally occur in
transmembrane proteins, is that proteins can actually
help transport molecules in and out of the cell. So now that we know the
function of proteins, why do you think proteins
that are lipid-bound or bound within our lipid bilayer, like
this one here, is so rare? Well, it's because if
the role of proteins is primarily to act as
receptors-- to communicate with our outside world-- or
to act as transport-- to allow things to go from the
inside to the outside or the outside to the inside--
the proteins that are kind of stuck in between don't really
have a big role in our cell membrane. And lastly, there's one very
important type of molecule that actually binds to our
lipids or our proteins, and these are carbohydrates. And we call these
glyco for short. So they would be glycoproteins,
or they might be glycolipids. And what these do is they play
a big role in communication. So for example, it allows
a cell to recognize another cell in our body. If they play a role
in communication, in cells recognizing
other cells, where do you think
these sugars would go? Well, these sugars
would mainly occur on the outside of our membrane. So they would kind of
stick out on proteins-- these would be
glycoproteins-- and they can be on peripheral
or integral proteins. Or they might stick out
on lipids, like this. And these would be glycolipids. Now, this a little
confusing to look at it. What we've just drawn
is a cross-section of our cell membrane. But what if we were looking
at the cell membrane from the outside, kind
of like a top view? What would that look like? Well, again for
the sake of time, I've predrawn our phospholipids. So if we were looking
at the cell membrane from the outside-- looking onto
the top of the cell membrane-- all we would see are these head
groups of our phospholipids. We might see some cholesterol
in between our cell membranes, like this. And we might see
some larger proteins that are on top of
our cell membrane, like this, scattered
throughout our cell. And lastly, we might actually
see some glycoproteins and glycolipids on the outside. And these would
attach themselves to our proteins and our
phospholipids, like that. So from the top, this is
what our cell membrane would look like. And you know something really
special about this-- this kind of looks like a piece of art. So if we think back to
elementary school, where we had the project where
we would put a lot of beans or different macaroni together
to create a piece of art, this kind of reminds me of that. So this is actually
what we call a mosaic. So scientists kind of
thought the same thing. So scientists actually
named this model of the cell the
fluid mosaic model, and so the mosaic portion of
our cell can be described here. Again, you can see that there
are a lot of different pieces-- different colorful
types of pieces-- put together to create this
beautiful cell membrane. But why did we call it fluid? Well, the reason we call
the cell membrane fluid is because these pieces
in our cell membrane can actually move around. They're not set in stone. So the proteins
and phospholipids in our cell membrane can
move around, like that. This is why we call it fluid. What would that look like if
we look at the cell membrane from the top? Well, the movement
is actually not two-dimensional-- just up and
down, or just left and right. It can actually go in a lot
of different directions. So our proteins can move all
around the cell membrane, and so can our phospholipids. So again, this is what we
call the fluid mosaic model. And just as a little
bit of a fun fact, this was only really
discovered in 1972. So it was only 40 years ago
that we really figured out that our cell
membrane was actually the fluid mosaic model. So in summary, our cell
membrane is made up of three major things. The first are phospholipids. These make up the most
of the cell membrane, and they're kind of like a basic
building block for our cell membrane to exist. The second are cholesterol. Cholesterol is
scattered randomly through our cell
membrane, and it helps maintain the fluidity
of the cell membrane. And the third are protein, and
proteins carry out nearly all of the essential cell
membrane functions. And together we call this
our fluid mosaic model, because our cell
membrane is made up of so many different things,
and all of these things are always moving
around like a fluid.