- [Instructor] Changing
the pH of a solution can affect the solubility
of a slightly soluble salt. For example, if we took some
solid lead two fluoride, which is a white solid, and we put it in some distilled water, the solid is going to reach an equilibrium with the ions in solution. Lead two fluoride forms lead two plus ions and fluoride anions in
a one to two mole ratio. So if we have two lead two
plus ions in this diagram, we need four fluoride anions. At equilibrium, the rate of this solution is equal to the rate of precipitation, and therefore, the amount of solid and the concentration of ions
in solution remains constant. And this forms a saturated
solution of lead two fluoride. To the system at equilibrium, we're gonna add some H plus ions. So by increasing the concentration of H plus ions in solution, we're decreasing the pH of the solution. When the H plus ions are
added to the solution, most of them react with
the fluoride anions that are present. So H plus plus F minus forms HF. Comparing the first diagram
to the second diagram, I just happened to add three H plus ions, which will react with three
of the fluoride anions that are present to produce three HF. Notice how the concentration of fluoride anions in solution has decreased from the first
diagram to the second diagram, because of the addition
of the H plus ions. So the system was at equilibrium and the concentration of
fluoride anions was decreased. According to Le Chatelier's Principle, the system will shift in the direction that decreases the stress. So if the stress is decreased concentration of fluoride anions, the system will shift to the right to make more fluoride anions. And when the system shifts to the right, more lead two fluoride dissolves to increase the
concentration of Pb two plus and fluoride anion. We can see that comparing
the second diagram to the third diagram, so the amount of solid has gotten smaller, since some of that lead
two fluoride dissolved, and we've increased the
concentration of Pb two plus and F minus in solution. The solid keeps dissolving and the concentration of ions
keeps increasing in solution until the system reaches equilibrium. So for a saturated solution of lead two fluoride at equilibrium, decreasing the pH or making
the solution more acidic by increasing the
concentration of H plus ions, increases the solubility
of lead two fluoride, which is why we saw more
of the solid dissolve when the H plus ions were added. This effect of decreasing the pH and increasing the solubility
of a slightly soluble salt happens whenever the slightly soluble salt contains a basic anion. For this example, the basic
anion is the fluoride anion, which reacts with the added H plus ions. And when the basic anion reacts, that decreases the concentration
of that basic anion, which caused the equilibrium
to shift to the right. And there are many other
examples of basic anions, two more would be the hydroxide anion and the carbonate anion. And if a compound contains a basic anion, such as the hydroxide anion,
hydroxide functions as a base and reacts with H plus ions to form H2O. So therefore, the solubility of a compound containing a hydroxide ion would increase as H plus ions are added to the solution. It's also important to note for this lead two fluoride problem, if the pH is decreased at
a constant temperature, the Ksp value for PbF
two remains constant. So the molar solubility does increase, but the Ksp value remains the same. This time, instead of lead two fluoride, let's look at lead two chloride. Lead two chloride is also a white solid. So if we dissolve some in solution, eventually, we would reach an equilibrium between the solid and
the ions in solution. So this diagram here
shows a saturated solution of lead two chloride and the
system is at equilibrium. And to the system at equilibrium, we decrease the pH by adding
H plus ions to the solution. In this case, the chloride anions aren't basic enough to
react with the H plus ions. Therefore, we do not form HCl and the concentration of chloride anions remains the same as it was
in the original diagram. So if the concentration of
chloride ions remains the same and the concentration
of lead two plus ions would remain the same, the
system is still at equilibrium and decrease in the pH had no effect on the solubility of the solids. So we have the same amount
of lead two chloride solid on the bottom of the
beaker in both diagrams. So whenever an anion has
an extremely weak base, like the chloride anion, we say that this is an
anion of negligible basicity and the solubility of salts with anions of negligible basicity is unaffected by changes in pH.