OK. So we're going to hack
a digital camera today. And we've got two
buttons on the camera. And one of them
is a power button. The other's a shutter button. So you've got to push
the power button first, and then you can push
the shutter button, and it'll trigger the
camera to take a picture. So I'm gonna pop those off. Those are metal dome
membrane switches. And when we take the
tops off of those, we realize that the connections
there are really small and it's going to be
hard to solder to those. So we're looking at connecting
to these four points on the back. That's where the switches
wire in to the main board. So we're just going to
cut the switches off. And we're going to
see if we can-- now, the first thing
that we need to do is we need to run
power to the camera. So we need to find
a way to power it. We're going to try and
power it using the batteries on our Bit-zee bot. And so we're going to solder
to the positive terminal. That's the terminal that the
batteries would connect to. We're going to solder a
22-gauge wire to that. And since it's positive,
the wire's red. It's just a symbolic way of
representing the red wire. And then we're
looking on the back. You can see where the
battery connections go. And so we're going
to connect to where the negative battery connects. We're gonna just feed
our 22-gauge wire there, the black one. And that'll be our
negative or ground wire. And we'll solder that
in place as well. And once we run a 5 volt
power to those two wires, we should be able to
power our digital camera. And so it's basically
extending the connections that we would normally
have for our batteries. Now, to do the wires for our on
off switch and for our shutter, we're using really small wires. We're using-- I think it's
a 38-gauge magnet wire. And right now, we're just
stripping the insulation off of that magnet wire. The insulation is lacquer. So we're just scraping
that lacquer coating off and preparing the
wire for soldering. Once the lacquer
coating is gone, we will tape the wire down
to one of our contacts. And that'll hold
the wire in place. Now, one of the reasons
we're using such a fine wire is that when that solder
flows around the wire, it won't take up so much
space that it bleeds over into the other solder contacts
that we need to keep separated, otherwise the switch won't work. So we're just going to heat
that wire up just a little bit and use some solder. And this is a very big tip. If you have a smaller tip
for your soldering iron, that's going to
work a lot better. But we've just got a little
bit of solder on there and let it flow down the
original solder joint and over the wire, and we
have a good connection. So we'll do this
for our second wire and make sure the second wire
is in the right position. And we'll continue this,
again, for our third wire. There's our third wire there. And again, we're just
taping that in place. And it's really important that
these wires remain separated and that they're not
connecting each other. Otherwise, again, your
switch won't work. And so then we'll do it
again for our fourth wire. And it takes a fair
amount of practice with a soldering iron to get
just the right amount of solder on it so that it
makes the connection, but not so much on it so that
it bridges between connections. So if you're not very familiar
with a soldering iron, you may want to practice a
good bit before trying this. OK. So now that we have
our wires on there, we've taken the tape off. We're gonna tape them
back down to make sure that they stay firmly in place. This is really important,
because those solder joints are not very strong. And if you tug on the wire,
it'll pull the solder out, pull the wire out, and
it may ruin your joint. OK. So we're looking at our
motor controller here. We're actually going to
attach our ground wire or negative wire from our
camera to the negative or the ground wire on our
motor controller there. And then we're going to
connect the negative wire from our battery to that same
terminal pin on the terminal block. That is the left terminal pin
on the center terminal block there. And then we're going to
connect the right terminal pin to the positive
wire from the battery. That's the 12 volt wire,
the positive 12 volts. And we'll connect that to
the far right terminal pin, and screw that one down. And you can see when we did
that, the negative wire came out. So we're going to
need to reattach that, the wire from the battery. And then we're going to take the
positive wire from the camera-- after we reconnect
our battery wire and tighten that down
the rest of the way, we'll take our positive
wire from our camera and put it in the center pin. And the center pin
is our 5 volt out. So we should be getting close
to 5 volts to power our camera. So we've got our voltmeter here. And the power's going
from the battery to the motor controller. And it's going through that
central chip, the little chip there, which is a
5-volt regulator chip. And so it's converting
our 12 volts to 5 volts. So we're going to put our
voltmeter on the negative pin, and then on the center one. And you can see that
that is 4.98 volts. So we do have the right amount
of voltage to run our camera. We're going to check
our camera, too, just to make sure the voltage
is going to the camera where it's supposed to be. And it looks like, yeah, we've
got 4.98 volts there, too. And so that's more
than, actually, what we need to run our camera. But I think it's
within tolerance. So we've got enough voltage
to make things happen. So now, we've got our two
wires here-- two of the wires that we connected. We're going to try and
connect them and see if they're the ones that
trigger our power on. So if we've found the right
wires when we connect those, it should turn the
power on to the camera. You should see the
LCD screen light up. So let's see if we
can make that happen. And it looks good, yeah. Those were our power wires. And they do allow the power
to flow through our camera. And so now, if we want
to take a picture, we need to take our
two shutter wires. Oh. And you can see
what just happened there was the two power wires
touched the metal on the L298 chip and actually
caused them to connect. So it's really
important when you're using those wires that
you keep them separated so that they don't touch when
you don't want them to. OK. So now we've got our
shutter wires here. And there you go. We just connected them, and
you can see we took a picture. So what we're going
to do now is we're going to wire up a circuit so
that the Arduino can control when this happens, when
the shutter happens and when the camera
is turned on. Now that we have
the wires separated, we can wire that to a
circuit and control it with the Arduino.