Because this will
allow us to distribute the power to
different locations. So we can take our
positive and our negative and connect them here,
and then anything else that needs a five-volt
operational power can pull it from this. Because when you connect a
positive here and a negative here, it powers all
these little points, all these little connections. And then the difference
on this board, of course-- and we went over
this in our breadboard talk-- but the difference
on this board is that when you put the
power in one of these, it powers the row. And it only powers this row. It doesn't power this row. Here these strips of
these little clips. And so they conduct the
power all the way across. So we're going to trim
down our power strip, which is part of the breadboard. We're going to cut it,
I think right here, so that we can fit in
front of the arduino and connect it to
the surface here. Now, as you cut
through it, you're going to want to hold
it on the bottom, because there's metal
clips on the inside. And as you're pushing down with
a hacksaw, they'll pop out. And you want to make sure you
can cut straight through those. So now we're ready to
just file this off, clean up the edges a little
bit here, and we're just using a standard file for that. So now we have our piece. It's got three sections in it. And that's going to
distribute our power. Let's see how it fits. Well, space is at
a premium here. Now that we've turned down
our piece of our breadboard, we're going to take
the double-stick tape off the back of it
and stick it down. And we've double-checked
that our arduino will fit over top of it OK. So let's go ahead and
put this in place. And we still want to make
sure that we have enough space before we press it in all the
way to both mount our arduino and also to-- you want to scoot
that out just a little bit. Oof. All right. So we've got our power
distribution here, and this is for 5 volts. And so we're going to take
our 5-volt power from here. And we're going to need to
be careful how we route this. I think we're going
to go underneath all these other wires
here, so that we can get the power over
to where we want it. All right. All right. So we got two cut. And now I'm going to just
take the wire stripper here, and we'll take off a
little less than a 1/4 of an inch of insulation. OK. There we go. And so we'll run our
wire into its place where it goes to
provide the power. And we can use our screwdriver
to push it down into place. There we go. And we'll do the same
with our positive wire. It looks about right. So yeah, that's pretty good. Are we still clear? It looks like we are. OK. So now we can run
connections like this, which is for our camera,
over to the power here. And the camera will
have power ready, so when we send the
command to turn it on, there'll be power
that the camera can pull from like it would
from its batteries. And again, we have a lot
more wire than we need, which is a little bit
unfortunate but that's OK. Always better to have too
much wire than too little. All right. OK. And this is the positive
wire for the battery. And I think what
we're going to do for this is we'll try to
snake it underneath everything just to get it out of the way. It looks like it might
be the most efficient way to get it back there. So it's a bit like
threading a needle, but-- OK. So now we have power run to
our camera, which is 5 volts. And that power can be accessed
when we turn our camera on.