There we go. All right. And then itsy-bitsy washer. Oh. That was classic. All right, here we go. Itsy-bitsy washer. And the reason we
want to use the washer is it just spreads
the force of the screw out a little bit more,
which can be useful. All right. So this is when it's
going to be handy to have a needle-nose pliers. And then we can take
our screwdriver-- one of our little ones, like
this guy right here-- and we're going to hold
the-- Not on this side. Turn the screw on this
side with a screwdriver. I'm going to make sure it's
pretty tight, because these will come loose. If it's not really tight, it'll
come loose, and if it does, it'll just make the parts
rattle around on your board. And I do think that the longer
screws for this make sense, because they'll allow you to
mount your Arduino further up than you would be able to
if you were using shorter ones. Which will be handy, because
you have to miss this thing, and if the Arduino is
up a little higher, it'll be easier to access
the USB, which you'll want for being able
to upload code. And the other reason why
you want it up like that is that it will make
it easier to run wires underneath it, if
you need to do that. And for this one,
I believe we do run a few wires
underneath the Arduino. OK. So now we're going to
see if the Arduino fits. Yes. And it does. OK. So we want to make sure that we
mount the Arduino high enough that we can still
access that USB port. So the way we're going
to do that is we'll take some of the
same nuts that we used to tighten the
machine screws down. We'll set them at a height
on the machine screws, so that holds up the Arduino. So it's probably
about like that. OK. Again, having it
mounted higher like that allows us to connect to the USB
and run our wires underneath, which will be handy. OK. Before we connect
the Arduino, we still need to mount the motors. OK. So we've just inserted
the Arduino in place. And I think we'll
run these power wires underneath it or
around it somehow. Go underneath it like this. And then, we're going to put
these nuts on top the screw posts and tighten them all
down to hold the Arduino firmly in place. Oh. There he goes. Maybe this one's magnetized. Yeah, it is. And see this side, back here,
is just a little bit lower than the other side. So what I'm going to
do is-- I can fix that by just raising the nut back
here, up just a little bit. There we go. I want to make sure that
they're all about the same. Might be able to
get the nuts going. I think I'm just
going to skip that. There's too many
bits close to it. OK. So before I tighten
this down all the way, I want to make sure. I'll test that. Well, actually, you know what? I'm going to go ahead,
and tighten it down. Just because I may forget. OK. That's pretty solid.