We're going to wire up
our L298 motor controller. We're going to position it
right on top of the camera where the batteries
would normally go. So in order to
get started, we've begun taping the area that we're
going to attach the L298 motor controller to. And the tape serves
a couple purposes. It protects the board
from the sharp leads on the bottom of our
L298, and it also allows us to remove
the L298 should we need to later, because we're
going to hot glue it down. So the Arduino-- we're
going to remove the Arduino, because it is kind
of in the way. We need to route wires,
and it's a lot easier to route those wires
when it's not there. So we're taping down the
control wires for our camera. Those are the shutter
and power wires. And now we're routing the
wires from our switch-- that is the on off switch--
up to where they'll connect with the
motor controller. So we're going to go underneath
the camera to do that. And we're just using
our needle nose pliers. And then this is the
switch from the battery, or the wire from the
battery, I should say. And we're going to pull
that through as well. And you kind of just
want to make sure that you are careful
in that you don't knock any of the components on
the bottom of the camera loose when you route
those wires up like that. But if you go underneath the
camera, it makes it look tidier and it's a little bit
more straightforward. So now we're going to
tape over the leads on our capacitor that's
on our camera there. We realize that the L298 has
some leads underneath that could potentially touch
it and cause a short. So we want to make sure
that doesn't happen. We're just covering it
over with electrical tape, and double checking the
position of the L298. And then what we're
going to do is we're going to take our hot
glue and squirt out about 3/4 of an inch in diameter
blob of hot glue. And we'll let it sit there for
just a few seconds, about 10 or 15 seconds, and
that will allow it to cool just a little bit. And when it cools, it
gets a little stiffer so it provides little more of
a cushion between the camera and the bottom of the L298,
once we install the L298. So we'll position the
L298 where it needs to go, and the motor controller
there, and we'll let it sit there
for just a second. And we'll come back
to before we wire. It'll take about two
minutes for that hot glue to fully cure and harden. So now it's definitely
hardened and in place. And so the L298 is secure. So now what we're
going to do is we're stripping the wires that are
going to go to our motors. Those are the wires that
have come up from our motors, I should say. And once we've got
those stripped, we're just going to connect them
to the motor block terminals. So you can see we're just
pushing the wire in there, and then we'll tighten the screw
in the motor block terminal down. And that's how we
wire our motors. So each motor has two wires,
and both of those wires go to each one of those blocks. So each block is for one motor. So now we're connecting
the last wire for the motor on the other side. And we just tighten that down. So now we're going to
connect the wires that are going to come
from our Aduino and tell our motor
controller which speed and direction
each motor should go. So there are different markings
on each of the input pinouts, and you can see that the
first one there says L1 and then there's an
L2 right next to it. L1 and 2 are going to
be individual wires that run back to the Arduino. L3 and 4 are also going to
be individual wires that run back to the Arduino. Now, there's another pinout
right next to the terminal block. That's E1 and 2. And we're going to connect
E1 and 2 to E3 and 4. So the way we'll do that
is we have a short wire. We stripped extra of
the short wire off, and we're just wrapping
that around another wire that we've stripped so that
we can connect the two. So we're going to create
what's called a jumper, and it's going to
connect E1-2 with E3-4. So now what we're
doing is we're just soldering the jumper together. And in order to do this,
we're heating the part that's wound
around-- the one wire that's wound around the other. And as those wires get hot
enough, they'll melt the solder and the solder will actually
wick in and around the joints. You can see it go there. And that'll make a
nice strong connection that we don't have to
worry about coming apart. Now we're just taking some heat
shrink tubing that we've cut and using our heat gun to melt
that or to soften that tubing and shrink it around
our connection. And that'll prevent any
shorts in the future. So if a stray wire touches
that, it won't short out. And we're just waiting for
the heat shrink cooling to dry and we're trimming off just
a little of the excess. And we'll take our
jumper and connected it to E1-E2, E3-E4, which are
the two remaining pinouts. And we discovered that
it's just a little long, so we're going
to trim off the excess. And then we're going to
try and strip the wire and take just a little
bit of the insulation off so that we can
put it in the pinout. And it's tough to get
the wire insulation off when it's that short, so
we used our nipper pliers to finish that off. So we're going to make
our connections there between E1-E2 and E3-E4. Again, taking just a little
bit of extra wire off-- it's not always easy to know
exactly how much you need, but we don't want a
whole lot of excess wire sticking up because
it may be able to get knocked out that way. So we're going to
route our wires down. You should have a total
of five wires coming out of the motor controller. And we're going to route those
down, and try and put them together in a
really neat fashion. Before we do that, we'll trim
off the excess from this wire. We're going to put them
together just lining them up so they're parallel
to one another and so none of the wires are
sitting on top of each other. So they're all just
sort of lined up in a nice, neat row
like lanes in a highway. And then we're going
to tape them down with our electrical tape. And that'll help to keep them
in place and keep them ordered. And again, we want
the wires to stick up past the side of the plastic
housing about an inch. And that'll give us some
excess if we need it for connecting to the Arduino.