Let's look at the reaction
for Friedel-Crafts alkylation. So we start with
our benzene ring, and to benzene we're going
to add an alkyl chloride, and our catalyst is
aluminum chloride. And the end result is to
substitute an R group, the R group that was on
the alkyl chloride, for a proton on
the aromatic ring. Let's look at the mechanism
for Friedel-Crafts alkylation. We start with our
alkyl chloride and we add our aluminum chloride,
which we've already seen can function as a Lewis acid. So it could be a
Lewis acid because it can accept a pair of electrons. And so our Lewis
base over here is going to be the alkyl chloride. It's going to donate
an electron pair. So I'm going to say this
electron pair is going to be donated to that aluminum. So we'd go ahead and draw the
result of R-Lewis acid base reaction here. So now the chlorine is
bonded to the aluminum, and the aluminum is bonded to
these other chlorines here, and I'm going to leave off
the lone pairs of electrons on those just to save time. In terms of formal
charges, aluminum now has a negative 1 formal
charge, and this chlorine now has a plus 1 formal
charge like that. So we know that halogens are
relatively electronegative, and so this chlorine here
could take these electrons, we could show these
electrons in here moving off onto that chlorine. And when we do that, we're
taking a bond away from R alkyl group and so therefore,
R alkyl group is left with a positive
1 formal charge. And this is a carbocation. And this is our electrophile
in our mechanism for electrophilic
aromatic substitution. And since we actually form a
carbocation in this mechanism, a carbocation
intermediate, rearrangement is actually possible so
we have to be careful when we're looking at a
Friedel-Crafts alkylation reaction in terms of
predicting the products. Our other product here, right? Well, we would have
our aluminum still bonded to these chlorines,
and of course, it's bonded to this
other chlorine too. And this chlorine now has
three lone pairs of electrons around it so these
electrons in here, ones that were in the
bond between our R group and our chlorine
left, and they are now on our chlorine like that. And so our aluminum still has
a negative 1 formal charge in there like that. All right, so now we have
generated our electrophile, which is our carbocation. And we know, of course,
that our benzene ring is going to react
with our electrophile. So here is our
benzene ring, and here is our carbocation so
positively charged. So we know that the pi
electrons in our benzene ring are going to function
as a nucleophile and attack the electrophiles so
negative charges are attracted to positive charges like that. And so we can go ahead
and draw the results of our nucleophilic attacks so
we now have our hydrogen still bonded here. And once again, I could
add the alkyl group to either of those two carbons. Let me just highlight
those again. So either one of
these two, but just to be consistent with
how I've been doing it in the previous videos, right? I'm going to add the R group
to the top carbon here, which means that I took a bond
away from the bottom carbons. Let me go ahead and
highlight that one. So this, of course,
lost a bond, which means that is where our
positive 1, a formal charge, would go so. Positive 1, formal
charge, a carbocation. And just to save
time, I'm not going to draw the other resonance
structures for this ion. OK? So remember, this will
represent our sigma complex, and you can watch the
previous videos for how to draw resonance structures
for this carbocation. And so in the last step
of our mechanism here, we're going to reform
our aromatic ring, and so we need to deprotonate
our sigma complex in order to do that so we could
think about these electrons in here moving out
to take that proton, and these electrons
moving in here to take away the
plus 1 formal charge and reform our aromatic ring. So now we have our
aromatic ring reformed to R group is on
our ring like that. Our other products
would be HCL and also we would regenerate our catalyst,
aluminum chloride like that. So let's go ahead and
follow some electrons. All right? So these electrons in
magenta right here. When the proton leaves, those
electrons in magenta reform this right here. And I can say that
these electrons in here are forming a bond between
the chlorine and the proton like that to form HCL. So that's our mechanism for
Friedel-Crafts alkylation. Let's look at a few
examples of this reaction. So we'll start with
benzene, and to benzene we are going to add
two chloropropane. So go ahead and draw
two chloropropane. That's going to be
our alkyl chloride. And once again, we need
our aluminum chloride as our catalyst. And so the way I do
Friedel-Crafts alkyl reactions is I think about what sort of a
carbocation am I going to get. And so without drawing
the entire mechanism, I know that this
chlorine is going to leave during the
mechanism, and if the chlorine leaves during the
mechanism, well, that means that we took a bond
away from this carbon right here, and so that's where
our plus 1 formal charge is going to be. So we have a plus
1 formal charge on that top carbon right there. If we think about a
possible rearrangement, this is a secondary carbocation
and there's no possible way that this carbocation
could rearrange to form a tertiary carbocation. And so secondary carbocations
are relatively stable, and so this will
be the carbocation that reacts with
our benzene ring. And so you could think
about once again, these pi electrons forming a
bond with that carbon so let's go ahead and draw the results
of our nucleophilic attacks. So we have our ring, we
have our other pi electrons, we have our hydrogen
that's already on our ring, and now we formed a bond to
three carbons so let's go ahead and once again highlight
some electrons here. So these electrons
in magenta have now formed a bond between those
two carbons right there. And always double check
yourself and count your carbons so we have one, two, three
carbons on that carbocation. So we have to make sure we have
the same number over here-- one, two, and three. So in our last step, we
know that deprotonation of our sigma complex, right? So this is a positive
1 formal charge here. Deprotonation of
our sigma complex, we get rid of that
positive 1 formal charge and reform our
aromatic ring so we've seen that these electrons
would move in here, and so we have our product. So we have our aromatic
ring like that. And then we have this isopropyl
group coming off of our ring so we form isopropyl benzene
as our final product. Let's do one more
Friedel-Crafts alkylation. This one will have a possible
rearrangement so let's go ahead and start with benzene again. So we have our benzene
ring, and to benzene we are going to add butyl
chloride here so one, two, three, four carbons. And then a chlorine like that,
and then aluminum chloride, once again, as our catalyst. And so if you're
approaching this problem, once again, I like
to think about what sort of a carbocation is going
to form in the mechanism. So I know that this
chlorine would kick off during the mechanism, and so
that would take away a bond from this carbon
right here so we're going to get a plus 1 formal
charge on that carbon. So if I go ahead and draw
out my four carbons here, and I know there's
going be a plus 1 formal charge on that
carbon on the end, which we, of course, know
this is a primary carbocation, and primary carbocations
are not very stable so there could be some
rearrangement here. And if you think
about what's the best way to rearrange our carbocation
to see if we can form a more stable one, you know
that there are hydrogens attached to the carbon next
door to that positive 1 formal charge. And so we get a
hydride shift here. So we've seen how to do
that in earlier videos. So you could think about
the hydrogen and these two electrons, all of them are
going to move over here. So if we go ahead and show the
result of that hydride shift so that hydrogen and
those two electrons are going to move
over there, that takes away the plus
1 formal charge of the carbon on the end. And we took a bond
away from this carbon now so that's this
carbon over here so that is where the plus 1 formal
charge is going to go. And so now we have a
secondary carbocation. So just to refresh your memory,
this is a secondary carbocation because the carbon in magenta
is bonded to two other carbons. So we have a
secondary carbocation, which we know is more stable
than a primary carbocation. And so if we can think about
two possible products here. So our benzene ring could react
it with our primary carbocation or more likely
it's going to react with our secondary carbocation
over so let's go ahead and draw the
results if it reacts with a secondary carbocation. So I could think about
my electrons in here and my pi bonds going
all the way over here to react with that carbocation,
that secondary carbocation, and so we can go ahead
and show the result of our nucleophilic attack. So once again, we
have our pi electrons. We had a hydrogen already
bonded to that ring there, and we're going to
form a bond to what used to be our carbocation
so we have four carbons, and one of them is going
to branching like that. So let's go ahead and analyze
what we've done so far. So plus 1 formal charge
on our sigma complex. So our electrons, our
pi electrons in here, are going to be these
electrons right here so forming our carbon-carbon
bond like that. And so when we look at
what's attached to that-- let me go ahead and highlight
some of these carbons here. So I'll start in red. So this carbon right
here I'm going to say is this carbon like that. So in magenta this carbon
down here in magenta is, of course, this
carbon right here in magenta, the one
that's bonded to our ring. And then, of course, we could
follow a few more carbons here. So I'm going to say that
this carbon in green that's, of course,
this one right here. And then finally, this
carbon right here in blue is this carbon. So always count your
carbons and make sure that you have the
right branching for something like this. So in the last step, of course,
deprotonation of our sigma complex, these electrons would
move into here like that. And we have one of our
final products here. So let's go ahead
and draw this one so we would have that
as our major product for this reaction. It is possible for the
primary carbocation to react as well
so let's go ahead and draw the result of that. So if these pi
electrons instead went for the primary
carbocation, they'd form a bond with that
carbon right there. And so we could go ahead
and draw the result of that so we would have
our ring once again. And once again, we
have our hydrogen, and this time we would have four
carbons coming off of our ring. So one, two, three,
four like that. And once again,
positive 1 formal charge on our sigma complex. So let's go ahead and
once again the highlight those electrons in magenta. So the electrons
in magenta right here they formed this
carbon-carbon bond. And they're bonding to
this carbon this time. So the one in the end,
so I'm going to say it's that one right there. So next we have the carbon
in magenta right here, and so that would be this one. And just to be consistent
with our colors, I'll go with green next so
this carbon is green and so that one is green right here. And then finally, this carbon
in blue is this carbon in blue. The reason I'm taking the time
to show all of these carbons is I find that this is one of
the areas where students will make the most
mistakes so you have to be careful about
following your electrons and counting your
carbons when you're drawing your final
products here. So deprotonation of
our sigma complex, these electrons move into there
and we would form butylbenzene as the minor product in
this reaction so let's go ahead and draw that out. So we have four carbons coming
off of our benzene ring, and this would be
the minor product since it comes from the
less stable carbocation. The primary
carbocation is not as stable as the
secondary carbocation. And so this shows one
of the limitations to the Friedel-Crafts
alkylation reaction. You can't always
control the alkyl group that you're putting on
to your ring because of the possible rearrangement
because there's a carbocation present in the mechanism. So if your goal was
to make butylbenzene, you wouldn't be able to make it
in extremely high yield using a Friedel-Crafts alkylation,
and so we'll see a better way to do that in the
next video, which is on Friedel-Crafts acylation.