What I want to do in this video
is to try to figure out what type of reaction or
reactions might occur if we have-- what is this? One, two, three, four,
five It's in a cycle. This is bromocyclopentane. If we have some
bromocyclopentane dissolved and our solvent is
dimethylformamide. Sometimes you'll see that
just written as DMF. And I've actually drawn the
formula for it here, so we can think about what type
of a solvent it is. And also, in our solution, we
have the methoxide ion. So we also have the methoxide
ion right here. So let's think about what type
of reaction might occur. And just to narrow things down,
we'll think about it in the context of the last four
types of reactions we've looked at. So this might be an Sn2
reaction, an Sn1 reaction, an E2 reaction, or an
E1 reaction. We're going to look at all the
clues and figure out what's likely to occur, and then
actually draw the mechanism for it occurring. Now, the first thing since they
gave us the solvent and other things that are in the
solvent, let's think about how those might affect
the reaction. So if we look at this solvent
right here, whenever you look at any of these reactions, when
you look at the solvent, you just want to
think about it. Is it protic or not? And protic means that it has
hydrogens that can kind of be released or that their electrons
could be nabbed off and these protons could
just float around. And if we look over here, we do
have hydrogens, but all of the hydrogens are bonded
to carbon. And carbon is unlikely to just
steal a hydrogen's electrons and let the hydrogen
float around. Carbon is not that
electronegative. If you had hydrogens bonded
to an oxygen, that'd be a different question. Then you would have
a protic solvent. But in this case, all the
hydrogens bonded to carbons, not likely to get their
electrons nabbed off and float around as free protons. So this is an aprotic solvent. Now, we've gone over this a
little bit with Sn2 and Sn1, but the same idea applies. In order to have an Sn2 or an E2
reaction, you have to have either a strong nucleophile or
a strong base, and the same thing could actually be both,
although they're not always correlated. We've seen that before. Now, if you had a protic
solvent, it would stabilize the strong base or the
strong nucleophile. The protons would
react with them. They would take the electrons
from that strong base or that strong nucleophile. So in order to have an Sn2 or
an E2, you have to have no protons flying around, so you
need an aprotic solvent. So this aprotic solvent will
favor Sn2 or an E2 reaction. Now, so our mind is already
thinking in Sn2 or E2, let's think about the reactants
themselves. So over here, we have
the methoxide ion. And let's think about whether
it's a strong or weak. Let's think about it first as a
strong or weak nucleophile. It's actually a pretty
strong nucleophile. It is a strong nucleophile. So that would put us in the
direction of an Sn1. So we have two data points. I'm sorry, for an Sn2. We have two data points for Sn2
because remember, it has to just kind of go in
there and be active. It's not too big of a molecule,
so it's not going to be hindered. But it's also an extremely
strong base, even stronger than hydroxide. So it's also an extremely strong
base, which might lead us or that does imply
that we're going to have an E2 reaction. Now, the last thing we need to
think about is the carbon where the leaving group
might leave from. And immediately, when you look
at the bromocyclopentane, there's only one functional
group attached to the chain, and that is the bromo group
right here, right there. It is attached to this carbon. We could call that the
alpha carbon, and it is a secondary carbon. This carbon right here
is bonded to one, two other carbons. This alpha carbon-- let
me write it this way. This alpha carbon is a secondary
carbon, and that kind of makes it neutral
in this mix. If it was a methyl or
primary carbon, it would favor Sn2, actually. I mean methyl, the only thing
you could have is an Sn2. And if it was a tertiary carbon,
it would favor Sn1 or E1 because it would favor
a stable carbocation. The leaving group could just
leave. And if this guy was bonded to another carbon,
it would be very stable. But in this situation, it's
a secondary carbon bonded to two carbons. It's a little bit neutral. Any of these reactions
might occur. When we look at all of the other
data points, they're pointing at both Sn2 or E2. We have a strong
nucleophile/base. We have an aprotic solvent. It's going to be Sn2
or an E2 reaction. So let's actually draw
the reactions. Let me do the Sn2 first. So
let me do it in orange. So if we were to have
an Sn2 reaction, let me redraw the molecule. Let me draw the cyclopentane
part. I want to make sure-- let me
draw it the same way I had it drawn up there. So the pentagon is
facing upwards. And then we have our bromo
group right there. So we have our methoxide
ion right over here. So CH3O minus. Or another way we could view
it is that this oxygen has one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven valence electrons with a negative charge. One of these electrons right
over here, this can attack the substrate right over
there, that carbon. Right when that happens,
simultaneously this bromine is going to be able to
nab an electron from that same carbon. And then we are going to be left
with-- the bromine now becomes the bromide anion. It had one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven valence electrons. One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven. Now it nabbed one more electron,
making it bromide. Now it has a negative charge. And if we were to draw
the chain, it would look like this. Well, we could draw it on this,
and I might as well draw it on this side, just so it's
attacking from the other side. This is the chiral substrate,
so we don't have to be too particular about how we draw the
connections to the carbon. We're not actually even
showing anything popping in or out. But we would have the methoxide
ion, where now it's bonded, so it's no longer
an ion, so it's OCH3, just like that. It has bonded to this carbon. Obviously, implicitly this
carbon had another hydrogen that we are not showing. Just that quickly, that
was the Sn2 reaction. That is the mechanism. Now let's think about what
the E2 reaction is. To do the E2 properly, to give
it justice, we're going to have to draw some of
the hydrogens. So on the E2 reaction, let
me draw that in blue. Let me draw the cyclopentane
part. Let me draw it big. Actually, over here, it's less
important to draw it too big. So let me draw the pentagon. The pentagon just like that. That is the bromine, three,
four, five, six, and then it has a seventh valence electron
right over here. This is the alpha carbon. That right there is
the alpha carbon. And then there are
two beta carbons. There are two beta carbons right
over there and there. They each have two hydrogens
on them. They each have two hydrogens. I know it's becoming a
little hard to read. They each have two hydrogens
on them. And in an E2 reaction, the
strong base will react-- let me make it a little
cleaner than that. Let me get rid of the beta. The beta makes it's
a little dirty. OK, so they each have two
hydrogens on them. Now in an E2 reaction, the
strong base-- over here, the methoxide ion was acting as
a strong nucleophile. In E2, it's going to act
as a strong base. It's going to nab off a hydrogen
off of one of the beta carbons. And you might want to
say, OK, which one? Let's look at Zaitsev's rule. It doesn't matter. These are symmetric. They are both bonded to
two other carbons. They both are bonded to the
same number of hydrogens. It doesn't matter. It's actually going to be random
which one, and you actually won't be able
tell the difference because it's symmetric. So let's just draw
it like this. Let me draw the methoxide ion. One, two, three, four--
or anion, maybe I should say-- five, six. And then it has one
bond to the CH3. It has a negative charge, very,
very, very strong base. It can go over here and nab
the hydrogen and leave hydrogen's electron behind. Maybe I'll take a color. This electron can be given to
the hydrogen so that it forms a bond with it. Hydrogen's electron-- let
me do this in a suitably different color. Hydrogen's electron that is
sitting right over there can now be given to the
alpha carbon. It can now be given to
the alpha carbon to form a double bond. And now that the alpha carbon is
getting that electron, now the bromo group can leave. It's
a decent leaving group. And that was another thing that
we should think about in our equation. But a good leaving group
actually favors all of the reactions: Sn2, E2, Sn1, E1. And so the carbon's getting
the electron, and then the bromine can then take this
carbon's electron. And just in one step that's
what's distinctive about the E2 and the Sn2 reactions. All of the reactions
are involved in the rate-determining step and there
really is only one step. Just like that, after that
happens, what we're left with is the methoxide anion
takes the hydrogen, so it becomes methanol. Let me draw that. So it becomes methanol. So it had one, two, three, four
and then five, that's this one right there, but then
this guy goes and bonds with the hydrogen. This guy goes and bonds with the
hydrogen, just like that, and hydrogen leaves its
electron behind. Let me draw the cyclopentane
part now. And so the cyclopentane looked
like this before, if I just focus on the ring. Now, this guy was bonded
to a hydrogen. He was bonded to this hydrogen
over here, but now that electron is going to be used to
form a bond with this alpha carbon right over here. Let me draw the alpha carbon. And the alpha carbon is
right over there. Obviously, implicitly at
every one of these edges, we have a carbon. But now, a double bond
is going to form with that alpha carbon. We could just draw it like
that, a double bond. Obviously, there's another
carbon here. I could write up another
carbon over there. And now this double
bond will form. And now the bromide has left. It's taken an electron with it
from that carbon now that the carbon doesn't need it. It was already starting to
hog it because it's so electronegative. So that's bromine. It takes that orange electron. Now, it is bromide. And we're done. And so just to go back to the
original question here, which reaction is likely to occur
or which mechanism? It's actually both Sn2 and E2. You would see a mix of both of
these occurring because you have all of the environmental
factors that would enable both. And so you would have both
of these mechanisms. Here's the-- let me
separate them out. Here's the Sn2 reaction. You would have the Sn2 reaction
occurring in your whatever, your vial, or your
pot, or whatever you're making all of this stuff occur in, and
you would also have your E2 reaction. So you would see some of all of
these, some of all of those products and these products
right over there.