- Hi there, just hangin' out with some of my distant relatives here, and I gotta say, I've got a
lot of respect for these guys, because they are some
of the most successful organisms on the Earth. We think we run things on this planet, but we don't, they do. On one acre of cultivated
land, annelids like this earthworm process about
16,000 pounds of soil a year, which makes plant life, and
our lives, therefore possible. And not only are there
about a billion, billion arthropods like this in the world, that's 10 to the 18th power, by the way, but also 80% of known animal
species are arthropods. Now don't get me wrong, even though bugs and spiders and worms and shrimp totally outnumber us humans,
we are far more complex than them when it comes
to, like, arm-wrestling and guitar playing and long division we totally school them. But complexity like ours
had to start somewhere. And it started with a very special trait that we share with these animals. Can you see the resemblance? (peppy rock music) Last time we talked about how
in the very simplest animals there are two traits that indicate an animal's relative complexity. There's how many germ layer they develop when they're embryos
and whether or not they have a coelom, or a body
cavity that holds their organs. So it's in the next two phyla,
Annelida and Arthropoda, where we find the new big thing in animal complexity: segmentation. Segmentation is the
repetition of anatomically identical units that can
be added to and modified to serve different
purposes as animals evolve. And evolution is the way to win it, folks. In fact, the three
biggest and most diverse groups of animals in
the world are the ones that display segmentation:
Annelida, Arthropoda, and Chordate, which
includes the vertebrates. All segmented animals
have a common ancestor that probably lived about
600 million years ago. That's how long ago it
was when one of your grandparents and one of the
earthworm's grandparents and one of the beetle's grandparents all played on the same
softball team, pretty crazy. Segmentation has proven
to be unbelievably useful from an evolutionary perspective. In humans, you see
anatomically identical pieces repeated along an axis,
from our butts to our heads. They can be a little hard
to see because they're so highly modified, but
think about our vertebrae, they're segments, our ribs are segments, the cartilage around our
trachea, those are segments. Even the folds in our brains are segments. They're crazy evolved segments, but segments just the same. Among today's animal phyla,
the earlier to display segmentation is Annelida,
which includes leeches and earthworms and lugworms. See how their whole bodies
look like rings fused together? Segments. In fact, the word Annelida
comes from the Greek for little rings, and when
you look at an annelid, you see that they're all
really obviously segmented. Now this segmentation is a great example of synapomorphy in annelids. Synapomorphies are
traits that set one group of animals apart from its ancestors and from other groups that
came from the same ancestor. So unlike their flatworm
and nematode cousins, annelids are segmented. And they've also got little bristles on their bodies, called
chaetae, that provide traction and help them
move through the dirt. These are both little extra somethings that annelids have that less complex relatives don't have, and that their common ancestors didn't have. Synapomorphies, literally
shared, derived traits, are usually the defining
traits of a phylum. But you can also learn
something about an animal's lineage by comparing plesiomorphies: very basic traits that
are shared by animals with a common ancestry. So between the Platyhelminthes
and the nematodes and the annelids, one plesiomorphy is that they're all worm-shaped,
which tells you that they have a common, distant
ancestor that was wormy looking. So as we talk about these
phyla and the classes within them, notice how they're similar and different from each other. For instance, within Annelida there are three different classes. Everybody's favorite, of course, is the Oligochaetes, the earthworms. Their name refers to the
synapomorphy I just mentioned, they have chaetae, or bristles, but only an oligo, few of them. And they're everyone's favorite because they eat soil and crap
it out the other end, allowing air and water
to circulate in the soil. Plus, their poo is rich
in things that plants need to grow, like nitrogen
and calcium and magnesium and phosphorus, and now I'm
gonna go watch my hands. Now on to the class
Hirudinea, the leeches, a lot of which are
parasitic and, you know, eat blood and other bodily fluids. The synapomorphy of leeches
are their powerful suckers, they've got them on both
ends of their bodies, the posterior one being
used to anchor itself while the anterior one
that surrounds its mouth attaches to its host. All leech species are carnivorous and they are hermaphrodites,
like earthworms. Now, the Polychaetes are bristly worms, hence a synapomorphy
of this class is their poly, many, chaetae, bristles. Almost all of these are marine species and they're really diverse,
but the ones you've probably seen evidence of are lugworms, the ones that dig holes at the beach and leave piles of castings on the sand. Okay, I know, you've had enough of worms. And now we've got
Arthropoda to talk about, and that's very easy to do
because there are a lot of them. Like I said, they totally outnumber us. Just to put things into perspective, there are more insects in
a square mile of rural land than there are human beings on the earth. One reason that scientists
think arthropods do so well has to do with their, you guessed it, segmented bodies! Fossils of early arthropods showed that there used to be very little
variation between the segments. But as they evolved,
segments fused and became specialized for different functions, which led to crazy amounts of diversity. So much diversity that
Arthropoda includes stuff like scorpions, butterflies,
and lobsters, which I know, seems like maybe a bit of a stretch, but here are the synapomorphies that make them all arthropods. One, they have segmented
bodes that, in most cases, are broken up into three segments:
head, thorax and abdomen. And check this out, here
segmentation in arthropods is a good example of plesiomorphy. It's a basic ancient trait that they share with annelids and us
chordates, for that matter, dating back to that softball
game our forebears played some 600 million years ago. Two, all arthropods have an exoskeleton, a hard outer shell made out of chitin, which is a really tough carbohydrate that's chemically similar to the cellulose that you find in plants. And, in order to grow bigger
they actually have to shed it. And be glad that you
don't have to do that, because it looks like kind of a traumatic experience for them. Finally, they've all got
paired and jointed appendages, which is actually where
their name comes from. Arthropod means jointed
feet, but it's not just their legs that are jointed,
some of them have claws and jointed antennae, and
they all have these external mouthparts that are also jointed. So that's what arthropods have in common, but they are grouped
into four subphyla based on how they differ from each other. First, and perhaps most terrifying, you have your
Cheliceriformes, which include spiders and scorpions,
but also horseshoe crabs, which are kinda nice,
and ticks, which aren't, and mites, which don't bother you at all. Probably, they might. Cheliceriformes comes from
the Greek for arm-lips, which, whatever Greeks, refer to
their long, fang-like pincers. Unlike a lot of arthropods,
they have simple eyes with just one lens and not compound eyes, like flies, and they lack antennae. Most Cheliceriformes are landlubbers, but the fossil record tell us that a lot of them were marine
back in the olden days. Sea spiders and horseshoe crabs
are the only ones left now. The largest class of
Cheliceriformes are the arachnids, the group that includes spiders and scorpions and ticks and mites. And they have what's
called a cephalothorax, which is a head segment
and a thorax segment fused together with eight
legs and an abdomen behind. Most arachnids are
carnivorous or parasitic, and they're very skittery, just sayin'. Next, Myriapoda, or
many feet, includes what you would expect, the
millipedes and centipedes. These are where the arthropods were like, let's see how far we can take this segmentation thing, shall we? All myriapods are
terrestrial and have antennae and sort of scary jaw-like mandibles. Millipedes are vegetarians,
and they may have been some of the very first
animals to live on land, where there were mosses
and primitive vascular plants for them to munch. Also, although millipedes
have a crap ton of legs, they don't have as many as a thousand, as their name implies. They've actually got anywhere
between 94 and 394 legs, depending on the species. Centipedes, whose name
is a little more apt, as they generally have
between 20 and 350 legs, are carnivores and have poisoned claws to paralyze their prey. So if you're looking to
cuddle with a myriapod I'm going to advise you
to go with the millipede. But please, save some
love for the Hexapoda, meaning six feet, most
of which are insects. The synapomorphies they
share are three part bodies consisting of a head, a
thorax, and an abdomen, three pairs of jointed legs
that come off the thorax, compound eyes, and two antennae. Now, think of any random way you could put these characteristics
together, and you'd probably come up with something that exists, because you guys, there
are so many damn insects out there, you have no idea. There are more species of insects than there are all other
animal species combined. Which is why I'm taking this opportunity to do a Biolo-graphy, the insects edition. (cheery piano music) Very little is understood
about the evolution of insects, but scientists
think that they probably split off from their crustacean cousins about 410 million years ago. And for tens of millions of years, insects and some little
skittery invertebrates were about the only land dwelling animals. About 320 million years
ago, thanks to the high oxygen levels of the Carboniferous period, some insects grew to be terrifyingly big. Like the Meganeura, which
looked like a dragonfly with a two-foot wingspan. But, since an insect's size is restrained by its respiratory system,
as oxygen levels went down, these massive insects
couldn't circulate enough oxygen to keep their
gigantic bodies going, and they died off. The next major milestone of insect history occurred around 120 million years ago, which is when most
flowering plants evolved. And with it, the sweet
spirit of cooperation that insects and flowering
plants still share to this day. In fact, some insects and flowering plants have co-evolved really
neat pollination strategies so they basically evolved together. Which I think is really sweet. And as a result of insect pollination, flowering plants are now the
overlords of the plant world. And thus, everything smells
nicer and looks prettier. Thanks, insects. Insects are the only
arthropods that have developed the ability to fly and
it has served them well. Insects' wings are just
extensions of the cuticle of the thorax, so unlike birds and bats, which have to sacrifice walking legs in order to evolve wings, insects are just as graceful on the ground
as they are in the air. But in order to be so awesome, insects had to develop this crazy
thing called metamorphosis. In partial metamorphosis,
the young, called nymphs, look exactly like the adult of the species and undergo a series of
molts which allows them to get bigger and bigger, but they look basically the same the whole time. Most of the types of arthropods do this and some insects, including
grasshoppers and cockroaches. However, complete metamorphosis
is a process unique to some insects that lets
them completely change shape. Maggots turn into flies,
mealworms turn into beetles, caterpillars turn into butterflies. The baby insect, called a
larva, I have one right here, this is a rhinoceros beetle larva. (laughs)
Pretty gross! Hangs out and eats until
it's time to build a little case around itself, called a pupa. This is the rhinoceros beetle pupa, which is exceptionally creepy. (laughs) And then when it comes out of the pupa, it's fully grown rhinoceros beetle. It's like soft at first,
and then its chitin hardens up and it becomes the adult. So insects, basically
wizards, but not as delicious as Crustacea, the insects of the sea. Crustaceans include crabs,
lobsters, shrimp, and barnacles, and like insects, they
have three body segments, head, thorax, and abdomen. Although some have a
cephalothorax, like spiders do. While most other arthropods have learned to love the land, very
few crustaceans have. They have decided to put
their energy into developing other amazing characteristics. For instance, lobsters and crayfish are like walking multi-tools, they have 19 pairs of appendages, some of which are claws,
some are mouth parts, some are regular old walkin' legs. Some shrimp have evolved bioluminescence, which is pretty much
the most amazing thing any animal can do as far as I can tell. And this yeti crab looks like a yeti! And we've covered most
of the types of animals on the Earth in what, 10 minutes? Hopefully now you can see the resemblance between these guys. I love my caterpillar.