Let's see if we can
learn thing or two about carboxylic acids. They have the general form of
the carbonyl group, just like we've seen in aldehydes and
ketones, and they will be part of a longer carbon chain. But instead of having a hydrogen
here, as the case with an aldehyde, or having
another carbon chain here, with the case of a ketone,
we have an OH group. And you're probably saying,
hey, why is this called an acid? It must be called an acid
because it is an acid, and you'd be right. And the reason why it is an
acid, and why it is more acidic that just something
with an OH group, it's actually a good bit more acidic
than alcohols, is because once this thing loses
its hydrogen-- remember, depending on what type of acid
you want to think about, acid in the Lewis sense could be an
electron taker, and this oxygen can take the electron
of this hydrogen. Or if you think about the
Arrhenius definition of an acid, it is a proton donor,
and this OH group can donate a proton. It takes away the electron of
this hydrogen, gives the way the proton, either way. But the reason why this is more
acidic than alcohol is once it gives away this
proton, it is actually resonance stabilized. So let me show you
what that means. To do that, let me actually show
you the bond between this oxygen and this hydrogen. The oxygen has this pink
electron, and the hydrogen has that magenta electron
right there. If you put this in a solution of
water, so you have some H2O over here, this oxygen right
here really wants to take back this magenta electron. And as it takes back that
magenta electron, it would essentially donate the hydrogen proton to a water molecule. So the water molecule would give
one of its electrons to the hydrogen proton and
then become positive. So once this happens, the next
step would look like this. What was our carboxylic acid
will now turn into the carboxylate ion, so it will now
look like this, so it has our carbonyl group. Now, this oxygen just took
an extra electron. So if I want to draw it,
I have that one. Actually, let me draw. So this is the oxygen. To start off with, the oxygen
had two lone pairs, so I want to draw those two lone pairs
first. So to start off with, it had those two lone pairs,
and now it had this pink electron from the get go, and
now it took this magenta electron, so now it has one
extra valence electron. We can even draw them here. We can count them: one, two,
three, four, five, six. Six is just a neutral oxygen,
but now it gained another one. It has seven. It now has a negative charge,
and then the water has now become a hydronium ion. So you have the water here. We've increased the proton
or the hydronium concentration in the water. This one water molecule is now
a hydronium molecule, so this is now bonded with
this hydrogen proton just like this. This oxygen gave away an
electron to this proton, so now it has a positive charge. And this right here, this
carboxylate ion right over here, the reason why this thing
was a stronger acid than something that just had an OH
group is because the conjugate base, the carboxylate ion, is
actually resonance stabilized. It is more stable than the
conjugate base of an alcohol, and let me show you that. This thing can share its
negative charge. Let me draw it. It can take this magenta
electron, give it to this carbon, then this carbon will
have an extra electron, so then it can give back an
electron to this top oxygen. So it is resonance stabilized
with this structure right over here. Let me draw the same so it
could look like this. That's too big. Let me scroll down
a little bit. It could look like this. And now, this took back this
blue electron, so now one of the bonds is gone, and it
started off with two lone pairs, so I want to draw that
there, and now it has another lone pair. It has this electron, this
electron, and now it has that blue electron over there. And now this oxygen, this top
oxygen, has a negative charge, and now the carbon
has a double bond with this side oxygen. So now the carbon-- let me go
back to the yellow-- that's the first bond with
that oxygen. It had one, two lone pairs to
begin with, and now it has this magenta bond. So this pink electron
is at this end. And now this purple electron is
at the other end, or this magenta electron, and
now it has a double bond with this oxygen. And we know that when you have
resonance stabilization, it's not like you're going
back and forth. The reality is that you have a
half double bond between both oxygens, that the electrons are
just flowing across the whole place, and that stabilizes
the molecule. And so to show that this is a
resonance structure, let me put some brackets around it. And, in general, if this R group
right here is actually even better at withdrawing
electrons, so if you put something that was really
electronegative here, something that likes to hog
electrons, it would make the carboxylate ion even
more stable. It would make the carboxylic
acid even a better acid. So if you put something
electronegative here, then you could imagine that some of this
negative charge that we drew in these two resonance
structures, can be sucked to that R group, and then that
would make it even more stable, and would make
the carboxylic acid even more acidic. Now, like in everything we've
looked at, there are some common carboxylic acids that are
not systematically named, that it's probably a
good idea to know. And I'll start with one, just to
see the pattern that we've seen in other things. We've seen that this thing over
here, if we have this, we call this acetaldehyde. This was the very simple
aldehyde we studied. we saw that if we have something
like this, which is a ketone, we called
this acetone. So you could imagine what we're
probably going to name-- let me do this in a different
color-- this molecule right over here. This is a carboxylic acid,
clearly, and it has just that one methyl group, just like the
acetaldehyde, just like the acetone, and so this
is acetic acid. So the acetaldehyde, acetone,
and acetic acid for me are fairly easy to memorize just
because they all have the acet- part. They all have that as their
prefix, and this part of the molecule is identical
in every case. And the difference is the
hydrogen, the methyl group over here, or the OH group,
making this one a carboxylic acid, an acetone,
and all that. Now, a couple of other ones that
it wouldn't hurt for you to know is this one
right over here. This is, you could argue, even
simpler than acetic acid, and this formic acid. And then another one, and
actually, I recently did a general chemistry video with
this, where we did a titration example, but this is essentially
two carboxyl groups attached to each other. It looks like this, two carboxyl
groups attached to each other and you
can see them. This is one carboxyl group right
over here, and then you have another carboxyl group
right over here. And so this actually can
be deprotonated twice. This hydrogen can be lost, and
that hydrogen can be lost, and this is oxalic acid. I'll leave you there. And in the next video, we'll
learn how to systematically name carboxylic acids.