- [Instructor] What we are
going to do in this video is talk a little bit about
experiments in science and experiments are really the heart of all scientific progress. If you think about, let's just say this represents
just baseline knowledge and then people have hunches in the world and for a lot of times people say, hey, I have a hunch that that
thing is good for you or that thing is good for you but they really had no way of measuring how confident they were. They really had no good way of proving it and even more, because they
had no good way of proving it, it was hard for people to
build on top of that knowledge but with the scientific
method and experiments, people were able to say, hey,
we have a hypothesis here and we were able to do some
well-designed experiments and so we feel pretty
good that this is true and then future people are going to say, hey, since we feel pretty
good that this is true, maybe we can design experiment
to see whether that is true. Hey, that actually is true and
then they can build on that and we end up having scientific progress that can accumulate over hundreds of years and this is really important that the experiments are well-designed because in the future and
this happens all the time, we might realize that hey,
actually there was a little, a few assumptions baked in
here that weren't accurate that allowed us to make
essentially misleading conclusions. So our conclusion wasn't quite right there and then we will have to
rebuild from that point in order to make sure that
we are truly making progress. So the key question is how do we set up well-designed experiments and it's a whole field of study but the whole purpose of this video is to really give an introduction to it. So let's just start with a hypothesis. Let's say that you have a hypothesis that some pill that is made up
of the petals of some flower, that this pill right
over here, it improves, it improves running, running speed. It improves running speed
if someone were to take it. So the important thing of any hypothesis, it has to be testable and so what you do is you have to think well, how am I going to test it? Well, what you can do, so how are you going to
test your hypothesis? At first, you might say, give the pill, so give the pill to some runners, to some runners and test their time, test their 100 meter time, test their 100 meter time before the pill, before the pill and after and you might say, hey,
maybe if, I don't know, their times improve after,
maybe my hypothesis is correct. Pause this video and see
if you feel comfortable with this test right over
here, this experiment. Well, actually, there's several problems with this experiment. How are you selecting these runners and if you give them the pill
and their speed improves, did it truly improve because of the pill or did it improve because
of some other thing that they are doing? Maybe they got new shoes or maybe their diet improved in some way or maybe they just had a
psychological improvement. This is often known as the placebo effect. If people are taking something that they think will help
them, it often will help them even if that thing is
just an empty capsule or just a sugar tablet. So how do you avoid these types of errors? Well, what you could do
is you can find runners and put them into two groups. So let's say this is one
group right over here and then this is another group
and what you would wanna do is you'd wanna go into
the population of people and you would want to randomly select whether someone goes into
one group or another group. Why random? Because if you don't randomly select, there's a chance that there
might be some implicit bias that you might just happen
to be picking people who maybe their running speed
is on an upward trajectory and they just happen to go into the group that will eventually get the pill. So you randomly, randomly
put them in those groups and what you wanna do is
you'll have a control group and you'll have a group
that gets your pill and so this group gets
the pill, gets the pill and now you might be tempted
for this group to say, oh, they don't get a pill and
then after a few months of it and it should be the same amount of time, you say, hey, did this
group's times improve over the 100 meters? How did that compare to this group? But be very careful. If this group gets the pill
and this group gets nothing then the pill might be providing
that placebo effect again just making people think
they're getting something that's making 'em faster. It might actually be a
self-fulfilling prophecy. So it's actually important that you also give these people a pill although this pill would
just look like a pill so this would be just an
empty, empty, empty pill that looks the same. Now, there's another idea when you're designing
scientific experiments that it needs to be double blind. Let me write this down. Double blind. So as you could imagine, it implies that two things are blind here. So the first thing that needs to be blind is the people themselves should not know which group
they're getting put into. They should not know
which pill they are taking because obviously, if you
put someone in this pill, in this group and you say, hey,
you're in the control group, we're just gonna give you an empty pill, well, then the placebo
effect might not be, it might not work. It's also important
'cause it's double blind that the people who are
working with the runners, the people who are measuring them so that the researcher is right over here so I'll draw someone with a clipboard. So the researchers who
are observing these people and maybe administering the pill and telling them about the experiment that they too do not know which group they are administering it to because if they did, they might
be able to signal somehow. They might be able to even subconsciously give a sense of which group folks are in and so let's say we do all of these things and so we're getting in the direction of a well-designed experiment and we find that the
10 people in this group versus the 10 people in this
group after three months, these folks had a 5%
improvement in running speed and these people had a 10%
improvement in running speed. Is that enough to conclude
that our hypothesis is correct? Well, you might be tempted,
it seems suggestive but that's where
statistics come into order because there's just some random
chance that you got lucky, that you happened to pick the people that, your pill does nothing but you just happened to pick the people who are going to improve more and there's a whole field
of inferential statistics when you take a statistics course that will go in more depth into this but essentially, what you're
gonna do is you're gonna say, hey, assume that your pill does nothing, what's the probability of
getting this result for 10 people or what's the probability of getting this difference in result and if that probability is very low, well, you say, hey, that would suggest that my pill actually does do something. Now, another important principle
of an experiment like this is it needs to be replicable, replicable because even though you
thought you did a good job, people might not wanna
take your word for it and it's important in science
for people to be skeptical. When people do experiments,
they want to have a result and that bias might creep in and so if someone else does an experiment, you need to say how
you did that experiment so other people can see if
they get the same results because even though you
think you randomly selected, you might only do it with
people from a certain country or under certain weather conditions or assuming other constraints and then these people might
do it slightly differently or in a different country or
under different constraints and realize that hey,
the explanation for this maybe was something else. Another thing to keep in mind is the larger your
samples right over here, the larger groups that
you're able to do this with, the stronger that the
statistics actually become and I would say not just larger but the more diverse across genders, across ethnicities, across geographies. So the big picture here
is all scientific progress is based on us designing good experiments and being very rigorous about how we think about those experiments and what I've highlighted
here is just the beginning of how we might think about
designing those experiments and as you go into your
scientific careers, look at other people's experiments and see whether they've done these things because many times you will find that it is not as rigorous
as it might seem at first.