In the last video, I gave the
example of this bank that I keep using. In this example, as opposed to
giving the gold out to make loans and be used for projects
that gold gets redeposited and then re-lent out. What we did in this examples is
that the bank-- every time it made a loan, it just made a
loan and that created an asset and then it had a corresponding
liability where the liability was either a
checking account that the entrepreneur could use or bank
notes, which are essentially cash that the entrepreneur
could use to pay their laborers or to buy their land or
whatever they needed to do. So an obvious question was, how
much could a bank do it? When does this stop? Can a bank just keep increasing
the left and right hand sides of the
balance sheet? And to answer this question,
we'll introduce the idea of a reserve ratio. So just, I guess, a bit of a
review, just to make sure we're clearly reading
this balance sheet. Let me label things a little bit
more because sometimes I assume too much. Remember, these are
the assets. The assets are all of these. Let me make a bold line here. All of this is the assets of
this bank, including its building, so its vault
down there. And then the liabilities. I'll do that in this red. I don't like this red color, but
these are the liabilities. And the equity-- whoever owns
the bank, whether it's stockholders or maybe it's
owned by an individual. Maybe it's owned by me--
is what's left over. I'll do it in a nice
neutral color. This is the equity. So the question is, how much can
the bank continue to issue out more loans and increase
its assets and its liabilities? Remember, every time it'd issue
a loan, like for right here, it issued a 100 gold piece
equivalent loan to D-- and instead of giving D 100 gold
pieces from, say, right here, it just created a checking
account for D, which later D paid to A and that's why
it's labeled A right here. Let me relabel another thing
because the gold is different colors so you see the gold. This is the gold part
of the assets. Let me make that very clear,
that all of this right here is gold. That's all gold and there's
500 gold pieces. So let's introduce the concept
of a reserve ratio. Let's think a little bit about
what even a reserve is. A reserve is something that
you keep aside because you might need it one day. And in this situation, all of
these liabilities-- whether they're these bank notes
outstanding in this example or whether they're these checking
accounts, these demand accounts-- these are all
liabilities that someone can come back to the bank on any
given day and say, hey, I want my gold now-- for
whatever reason. Maybe I'm leaving town. Maybe I don't trust
the bank anymore. For whatever reason--
maybe they just want to make some jewelry. For whatever reason, that person
wants their gold back. These are demand accounts. These checking accounts are
demand accounts and these notes are things that can be
exchanged for gold at any point in time. And we talked a little bit about
this earlier when we started the whole banking
discussion, but you have to leave aside a little bit of
gold just in case someone wants their gold back. So this amount of the gold that
you have to leave aside as a reserve, relative to the
total amount of demands you have on that gold, that's
the reserve ratio. And in this situation, this
world that we've created, the reserve store value is gold. Later on we're going to get
ourselves off of this gold system and then that reserve
store of value is actually going to turn into cash, but
for right now-- and I think it's easier actually to
conceptualize gold. Let's stick with gold. The reserve ratio for this bank
is the amount of gold assets-- you won't see this
formal definition anywhere because most people are off the
gold standard right now-- but it's the amount of gold
assets divided by total-- I don't want to say total
liabilities because the bank could take out loans that
aren't demand loans. Everything on the liabilities
right now are on demand loans, which means whoever has that
liability can come back and exchange it for gold at any
moment in time, but the bank could've taken just a regular
loan-- and a regular loan might not be on demand. A regular loan might be a loan
that the bank doesn't have to pay back for 10 years, in which
case there's no reason why the bank would have
to set aside some gold to pay that back. So let's make our definition
not total liabilities, but total demand liabilities. So what would be total
demand liabilities? That would be total bank notes
in this case-- and bank notes are also something-- we'll
later leave a world where every bank is issuing bank
notes, but I just wanted to give you that kind of historical
context, how bank notes even started off. Total bank notes and
demand accounts, demand or checking accounts. So let's see what it is for this
bank that we have here. So our total gold assets are
500-- and what's our total demand accounts? 100 plus 100 plus 100-- 100,
200, 300, 400-- 600-- and I think this is another
100 here-- 700. The total demand liabilities,
I just figured out, was 700 and the gold assets in
this bank are 500. So right now the reserve
ratio of this bank is pretty high-- 5/7. So I don't know what 5/7 is. If I'm doing my mental math
right, it's about 62%-- 7 goes into 50-- no, no, 7 goes into
57 times-- it's like 71%. Right. 7 times 7 is 49-- 71%. So that's its reserve ratio. And what keeps banks from just
keep issuing more assets and debts to expand its balance
sheet is a reserve ratio requirement. So right now in the United
States-- although we're not on the gold standard, but you
could imagine it in this world-- our bank regulators
might say that your reserve ratio on demand accounts-- so
the amount of gold you have to set aside for checking
accounts-- so reserve requirement, we'll call it. Let me change colors just
to ease the monotony. They might say the reserve
requirement is equal to-- let's say they want
to be safe. Let's say they want
to make it 20%. In the U.S. right now, it's
10% although the reserve commodity isn't gold anymore. Let's say your reserve
requirement is 20%. That means as long as-- at any
given moment in time, more than 20% of these people don't
demand their money back, the bank's going to have
liquidity. The bank is going to be able
to fulfill its promise. Because all of these people
think at any given moment they can go to the bank and
get their gold. In order for this system to
work, there has to be confidence-- and in order for
there to be confidence, the bank has to be good for it every
time someone asks for their money. So the bank has to
stay liquid. So essentially this reserve
ratio is what the regulators think that a bank needs
to maintain in order to be liquid. Our bank as it is right now, it
has a reserve ratio of 71%. So as long as no more than 71%
of these people-- some of these loans, they might be
out for a year or two. So as long as, in that year or
two that these loans are out, as long as no more than 71% of
these people don't come asking for their gold, we
should be OK. If all of a sudden for whatever
weird reason, I don't know, 80% of these people who
have demand deposits or bank notes come and want to switch
their money for gold, this bank is going to run out of gold
and that's a bank run. And there's a couple of reasons
why that's really bad. One is, all of a sudden these
demand deposit accounts all of a sudden don't seem to be that
great because you're not really getting your gold on
demand because more people are asking for gold than
there is gold. And the other problem is, all of
a sudden everyone will lose confidence in the system and
everyone's going to think, boy, these banks that have
these nice vault-looking buildings-- maybe they're not
as safe as I thought. So everyone is going to start
pulling their money out. And that's called a bank run. So in this example, if I assume
that this loan is really worth 300 gold pieces
and it's really going to be paid back and this loan right
here is really worth 100 gold pieces and it really
will be paid back, this bank is solvent. It has more assets than
it does liabilities. So if it has enough time, it
will be able to pay back all of its liabilities. But if all of these people, all
of a sudden, come in and want not just 500 gold pieces,
if they want 600 gold pieces, right, they're owed actually
700-- so if they want 600 gold pieces, all of a sudden
everyone's going to lose confidence in the system. These people probably-- if
they're not able to get that, they're probably going to want
all their money back so then all of these liabilities
are going to come due. And then maybe the bank is going
to have to try to sell these loans to someone else or
maybe try to collect from someone, but as you can imagine,
it's a big mess and the whole system which is
dependent on confidence will just start to crumble. But anyway, the initial question
is, what is the limit to how much you can expand the
asset and the liability side of the balance sheet just by
creating these loans and these deposit accounts? And that limit is driven by the
reserve ratio, whatever the regulators set. Anyway, I'll see you
in the next video.