(piano music) Male voiceover: We're in the
Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, which has tremendous
importance to Catholicism. This is where the Pope will lead
mass, but perhaps most famously this is the room that the college of
cardinals uses to decide the next Pope. Female voiceover: And every
surface of this space is decorated, from the beautiful mosaics on the floor. The walls are painted with frescoes
by early Renaissance artists. The wall behind the alter
was painted by Michelangelo later in his life, and
then of course the ceiling. Male voiceover: And
everybody is looking up. Their necks are craned, and
of course it's magnificient. We're here in the late afternoon
on a day in early July. The light is diffuse and it makes those
frescoed figures feel so dimensional. They feel like sculpture. Female voiceover: And you
can imagine what it was like when this was unveiled in 1512, after
Michelangelo had worked on it for years, how different, how revolutionary
Michelangelo's figures seemed. Male voiceover: Well he was
first and foremost a sculptor, and it wasn't actually until a
relatively recent cleaning that we knew his brilliance as a
colorist, but for him line and
drawing and the act of carving figures out of paint was primary. You have this extraordinary
ability to render both strength
and elegance simultaneously. Female voiceover: They have a massiveness
and a presence that is charismatic, but there's also a sense of
elegance and ideal beauty. So, let's describe what we're looking at. Male voiceover: Okay. Probably the most
important are the series of nine scenes that move across the central panels. Female voiceover: And those are framed
by a painted architectural framework that looks real. It doesn't look like paint. And we start with the
creation of the world. God separating light from darkness. Male voiceover: I love that scene. This primordial God, light
on one side of his body and the darkness of night on the
other,this initial separation and division to create order in the universe. Female voiceover: And then we move
through to the creation of Adam, the creation of Eve. Male voiceover: Oh, the
separation of the sexes. Female voiceover: And the creation of
God's most perfect creature, human beings. And then the fall of human beings. Male voiceover: In a sense, the
separation of good and evil. Female voiceover: Man
and woman disobeying God causing the expulsion of Adam
and Eve from the Garden of Eden and then the far end by the
entrance we see the scenes of Noah. Male voiceover: So, these are all
scenes from the first book of the bible, from the Book of Genesis,
and it's so interesting because of course this
is a Catholic church and yet we don't see images of
Christ, but these Old Testament scenes lay the foundation for
the coming of Christ. Female voiceover: And Christ
is present in other ways. Not only does the disobedience of Adam and
Eve make the coming of Christ necessary but when we look on either side of
those central scenes we see the prophets and the Sibyls who predicted the
coming of a savior for mankind. Male voiceover: The image of
the Libyan sibyl that we're
sitting directly across from is spectacularly beautiful. So sibyls are these ancient Pagan
soothsayers who can foresee the future and according to the Catholic tradition
foretell the coming of Christ, but look at the Libyan sibyl. Look at the power of her body, and
look at the elegance with which she twists and turns. There's that sense of potential in
the way that her toe just reaches down and touches the ground but seems
as if she's in the act of moving and possibly of standing. Female voiceover: There's the
presence and drama to these figures, to the Libyan sibyl especially. She twists her body in
an almost impossible way and we can see Michelangelo has
articulated every muscle in the back, and in fact we know that he used
a male model for that figure. Male voiceover: I'm so
taken with the color here. When I first studied Michelangelo
we spoke only of line, of sculptural form, but of course
after the dramatic cleaning of the Sistine Chapel those
original colors, their brilliance, their delicacy came out. Female voiceover: And we see
purples and golds and oranges and blues and greens. Male voiceover: She, of
course, is reaching back and presumably that's a book
of prophecy that she holds, and there's a look of confidence
and knowing on her face. The absolute clarity with which
she knows that Christ will come. Female voiceover: Sitting on
the architectural framework on the four corners of
all of the central scenes are male nude figures that
we refer to as ignudi. Male voiceover: I think
this is really important because Michelangelo is not
painting simply separate paintings, but he's creating this
enormously complex stage set with which to create levels
of reality and so for example the Libyan sibyl seems as if she
is seated amongst the architecture and then set next to her
are bronze figures and then in the spandrels, as
you mentioned, other scenes that seem to recede into a
kind of illusionistic distance. Female voiceover: And then relief
sculptures on the architecture
on either side of her, and then seated above those
the ignudi, and it's so clear that we're at this moment,
at the rediscovery of ancient
Greek and Roman sculpture and Michelangelo is in Rome. He's in the Vatican. Male voiceover: This is
the high Renaissance. It's so interesting to compare the
optimism, the elegance, the nobility of the figures of the figures on
the ceiling with the far darker and more pessimistic view that
Michelangelo will paint decades later on the back wall, The Last Judgment. Female voiceover: That's right. There's a big difference between 1512
when Michelangelo completes the ceiling and when he begins The Last Judgment. The Protestant Reformation has begun
and the church is under attack. Male voiceover: Michelangelo's
world had been shattered, but when you look at the ceiling
you see instead all of the optimism, all of the intellectual
and emotional power that
characterizes the high Renaissance in all of its new found
appreciation for the ancient world. This was a moment of incredible
promise, and all of that comes
shining through these figures. Female voiceover: And let's not
forget that just a few doors away simultaneously Raphael is painting
the frescoes in the papal palace. So, what a moment in Rome. (piano music)