- [Instructor] In this video,
we're gonna get our bearings on the different types of studies you might statistically
analyze or statistical studies. So first of all, it's
worth differentiating between an experiment and
an observational study. I encourage you pause this video and think about what the difference is, at least in your head
between an experiment and an observational. Observational study. Well, you might already be
familiar with experiments. You oftentimes have a hypothesis that if you do something to one group, that it might have some type
of statistically significant impact on them relative to a group that you did not do it to. And you would be generally right. That is the flavor of
what we're talking about when we're talking about an experiment. An experiment we're
actively putting people or things into a control
versus treatment group. In the treatment group, you put the people and you usually would want
to randomly select people into the treatment group. Maybe it's a new type of medication. And maybe in the treatment group, they actually get the medication
while in the control group, which you would put people into randomly, whether they're in control or treatment, here they might get a placebo where they get a pill that
looks just like the medication, but it really doesn't do anything. And then you wait some
time and you can see, is there a statistically
significant difference between the treatment group on average and the control group. So that's what an experiment does. It's kind of this act of
sorting and figuring out whether some type of stimulus
is able to show a difference while an observational study, you don't actively put into groups. Instead, you just collect data and see if you can have some insights from that data. If you can say, okay, the data,
there's a population here, can I come up with some statistics that are indicative of the population? I might just wanna look at averages, or I might wanna find some
correlations between variables. But even when we're talking
about an observational study, there are different types of it, depending on what type
of data we're looking at, whether the data is
backward-looking, forward-looking or it's data that we are
collecting right now, based on what people
think or say right now. So if we're thinking about
an observational study that is looking at past data, and I could imagine
doing something like this at Khan Academy, where we could look at
maybe usage of Khan Academy over time. We have these things in our server logs, and we're able to make
do some analysis there. Maybe we're able to analyze and say, on average students are
spending two hours per month on Khan Academy over in 2019. That would be past data. And that type of observational
study would be called a retrospective study. Retro for backwards and spective, looking. So retrospective observational study would sample past data
in order to come up with some insights. Now you can imagine there
might be the other side. What if we are trying to
observe things into the future? Well, here you might
take a sample of folks who you think are
indicative of a population and you might want to
just track their data. So you could even consider
that to be future data. So you pick the group,
the sample ahead of time, and then you track their data over time. I'm just gonna try these little arrows that you're tracking their data, and then you see what happens. For example, you might
randomly select hopefully a random sample of a hundred women, and you wanna see in the coming year, how many eggs do they
eat on average per day? Well, what you would do is
you selected those folks and then you would track that data for each of them every day. And then once you have the data, you could actually do it
while you're collecting it. But at the end of the study, you'll be able to see
what those averages are. But you can also keep track of it while you're taking that data. And you could imagine
what this was called. Instead of retrospective,
we're now looking forward. So it is prospective, forward
looking observational study. Last but not least, some of
y'all are probably thinking, what about if we're doing something now? If we go out there and we were
to survey a bunch of people and say, how many eggs did you eat today? Or who are you going to vote for? What might we call that? It's tempting to call it
something with a prefix and then spective. So it all matches, but it turns out that the
terminology that statisticians will typically use is a sample survey. That right now you're gonna
take a hopefully random sample of individuals from the
population that you care about. And you are just gonna
serve them right now and ask them, say some questions or observe some data about them right now. So I'll leave you there. This video is to just
give you a little bit of the vocabulary and a
little bit of a taxonomy on the types of studies
that you'll see in general, which is especially useful to know when you're exploring
the world of statistics.