In the previous video, we
looked at the mechanism for the Birch reduction. In this video, we're going to
see what happens with the Birch reduction when you have a
substituted benzene ring. So if you have a benzene ring
with a substituent on it, and you add sodium, liquid
ammonia, and an alcohol, the substituent
is going to affect which carbons are reduced. So for example, if you have
an electron withdrawing group on your ring, the carbon that's
bonded to your Y substituent here is reduced. If you have an electron
donating group on your ring, the carbon that's bonded to
that substituent is not reduced. Let's see if we can
learn why by going through a mechanism for
each one of these examples. And we'll start with an
electron withdrawing group. And so here we have an
electron withdrawing group that is an ester
on our benzene ring, and we're going to start
with our sodium, which we know has one
valence electron. I'm going to go ahead and
just do the mechanism, and we'll talk about
details as to why it happens that way
when I'm done here. So this lone
electron on sodium is going to be donated
to this carbon, and we have a bond here, which
consists of two electrons. One of those electrons
is also going to move out onto that carbon,
and one of those electrons is going to move into here. With our other bond,
a similar idea. One of the electrons is going to
move into here, and one of them is going to move off onto
this carbon so let's go ahead and show the movement of
all of those electrons. So once again, we have
our ester group up here. We added an electron to
this carbon from the sodium. We got another
electron from that bond so that gives this carbon
a negative 1 formal charge. And over here we
formed a pi bond. There was already
a pi over here. And then, of course, we get
one electron on that carbon. So this is our radical
anion, and if you had a hard time following
those electrons, please go back and watch the previous
video and take some time to study the
mechanism really well. So in the next step
in the mechanism, we know that's the
protonation step. So we have an alcohol,
it comes along here, and we're going to
protonate our anion. So these electrons
here pick up a proton and kick those electrons
off onto the oxygen so let's go ahead and
draw what we have now. So pi electrons here. Up here we have our electron
withdrawing group, our ester. And we had an electron
on this carbon. There was already a hydrogen
bonded to this carbon, and those electrons
picked up a proton and so we now have two
hydrogens bonded to that carbon. In the third step
up our mechanism, we started off with
an electron and then we went to a
protonation and so we know the third step
is electron again. And so we could think about
another sodium coming along with its valence
electron, and, of course, it's going to donate its valence
electron to the carbon that already has an
electron on it, right? So to this carbon right here. So let's go ahead and
draw the result of that. So I have my ring, I have
my pi electrons in my ring, I have my hydrogens
already bonded to it. Up here I have my ester
group bonded to my ring. I had one electron
on this carbon and the sodium just
donated another one so that gives me a
negative 1 formal charge, and so this is our
anion right here. And the final step
for our mechanism, we know that's another
protonation step so I'll go ahead and
show my anion picking up a proton from this alcohol here. And so we can go ahead and show
and draw the final product. So I have my ring, I
have these pi electrons, I have these hydrogens
on this carbon, and I have my ester group
coming off of my ring, and I added on a
proton to that carbon so that's the final product. And you can see, of course,
that the carbon that is bonded to our electron
withdrawing group was reduced. It gained a proton here. And the question is why? Why do we get this
as our product? And a way to think about
that is to go back here to this structure. So this anion step. And I can draw our a structure
for this anion because of the presence of that
electron withdrawing group. So let me go ahead and put
in my resonance brackets and my resonance arrow here. And this is negative
charge-- I'm going to go ahead and use red
here-- so these electrons right here can participate in
resonance due to the presence of our electron
withdrawing group, and we know that this oxygen
has two lone pairs of electrons on it so if these electrons
moved in here to form a bond, that would push these pi
electrons off onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw
our resonance structures. So we have our ring, we
have our pi electrons. Now, the carbon on our ring
is double bonded to the carbon out here, and that carbon
is bonded to an oxygen, that oxygen now has three
lone pairs of electrons, which gives it a negative
1 formal charge. And we still have this part
over here on our molecule and these hydrogens of course. And so let me show those
electrons in red there. So those electrons in red moved
in here to form a pi bond, and so there's
resonance stabilization of electron density
at the ipso position. So the ipso position
is the position that's right next
to our substituent. So it's the carbon
on our ring that's bonded to our substituent. And because of the presence of
our electron withdrawing group, electron density at that
position is stabilized. And actually if you go back
here to the radical anion, these electrons are
actually delocalized. And so the presence of that
electron withdrawing group stabilizes electron density
at the ipso position and also the para position,
and so that's why you see the reduction
happening at those carbons. So now that we have
an idea about why we get this as the product when
you get an electron withdrawing group present on your ring,
let's go ahead and do one for an electron donating group
and we'll try to compare. So the electron donating
group here is a methoxy group. So here's our
methoxy group, which we know the oxygen has two
lone pairs of electrons, and it's those lone
pairs of electrons, it's one of those lone
pairs that can contribute and increase the electron
density in your ring, and so therefore, the methoxy
group is an electron donating group as we saw in some
of the other videos here. So we'll start the
mechanism, and once again, let me just go ahead
and do the mechanism and we'll talk about why it
occurs when I'm done here. So if the sodium donates
its valence electron to the ring and it's
going to donate it to this carbon right
here on our ring. For this bond, one
of the electrons is going to move out
onto that same carbon that the sodium
donated an electron to, and then the other electron
is going to move into here. So for this bond,
one of the electrons is going to move into here
and one of the electrons is going to move out
onto this carbon. So let's go ahead
and draw the result of all those electrons moving. So once again, we have
our methoxy group up here. So this carbon got an
electron from sodium, this carbon got an
electron from the bond, and so now it has a negative
1 formal charge on it. We formed a pi bond
over here, and we also have an unpaired
electron over here so this is our radical anion. Next, of course, is protonation. So we can go ahead and
show our alcohol over here. So our carbanion functions
as a base, picks up a proton, and let's go ahead
and show the result after our ring is
protonated here. So this is protonation
in the ortho position. So if I think about
this carbon right here, protonation occurs ortho
to our methoxy group so there was already a
hydrogen on that ring, and we protonated so now there
are two hydrogens on that ring. Pi bond over here. We still have our
unpaired electron. All right, so third step of
our mechanism, of course, would be another electron,
which we get from sodium. So sodium comes along and
donates a valence electron right here so let's go ahead
and draw the result of that. So we have our ring, we have
our electron donating group, we have pi electrons here and
here, we had these hydrogens, and at this carbon
we had one electron, we got another one
from another sodium so that gives us a
negative 1 formal charge and so that's our anion. So the next step
would be protonation so this time protonation
is occurring meta to our electron donating group. So if I think about
this carbon right here. Right now, we're talking
about meta protonation compared to the position of
our electron donating group. And so these electrons
are going to pick up a proton from our alcohol, kicks
these electrons in here off, and so now we can go ahead
and show the product. So once again, our methoxy
group, our pi electrons, we had hydrogens on
that carbon, there was already a hydrogen
on this carbon, right? It picked up a proton, and so
now there are two hydrogens, and so now we're done. This is our product. And so, of course,
the question is why is this a little bit
different from the electron withdrawing group? Why does the electron
donating group work this way? So once again we can
look at the carbon that's bonded to our methoxy group,
our electron donating group. That carbon was not reduced. And one way of thinking about
it is in this mechanism you can see we have a lot
of electron density in the ortho and
the meta position so we have a lot
of electron density in the ortho and
the meta position. And so those are the
carbons that are reduced, and it makes sense that we
don't reduce the carbon that's attached to our
electron donating group because, of course, our
electron donating group would donate some electron
density to that carbon. So let me go ahead and
draw a little picture here so you can understand
a little bit better about what I'm talking about. If I had my electron
donating group, I can move these
electrons into here, and so there's a little
bit more electron density. And so if we had a
negative 1 formal charge or some electron density
right at this carbon, these electrons here
would, of course, destabilize an anion or electron
density at this position, at the ipso position. And so you're not going
to see a reduction at the ipso and
the para position. So that's what we
saw when we had the electron withdrawing group. An electron withdrawing group
stabilized electron density at the ipso and the
para position here, but that's not the case for
an electron donating group. It would destabilize
any electron density at those positions,
and so that's why you think about
in ortho and a meta, it's more out of the way. And so it doesn't
destabilize it as much. And of course, you could think
about this ortho and this meta. It doesn't really matter
because of the symmetry for this example, but that's
one way to think about it. Maybe it's not the
best explanation, but it's a good way of
thinking about it here. And at one time, there
was some disagreement over the order of
protonation so it turns out that you do have an
ortho protonation first and then followed by
a meta protonation, but some people used to think
that a meta protonation was first followed by an ortho, but
I think that studies have shown that ortho was
first and now meta. So this just gives you
a little bit of insight into what electron withdrawing
groups and what electron donating groups, what
effect they can have, what effect those directors can
have, on the Birch reduction.