- [Voiceover] So again, we've
been talking a lot about the early stages of the Civil
War which were about slavery and the spread of slavery, and I think in popular culture,
when we think about things like Abraham Lincoln and
the Civil War and slavery, the term Emancipation
Proclamation, or the idea of the Emancipation
Proclamation comes to mind and I think a lot of folks
imagine it to be this really amazing speech that at
some point, you know, Lincoln makes this proclamation, and after that point,
slavery is just gone from the United States, is that what it was? - [Voiceover] No, it's
actually a lot more complicated than that. So, the Emancipation Proclamation itself was not a speech. It was actually closer to a decree. Even though Lincoln didn't
originally come in to his presidency intending to end slavery, it became pretty clear in the
first year of the war that-- - [Voiceover] He was anti-slavery. He just didn't want it to spread. He didn't think he could end it. - [Voiceover] Right, so he specifically says in his
inaugural address that he has no intention of ending slavery
and that if the slave states returned to the Union,
everything will just go back to the status quo, but it
very quickly becomes apparent in the Civil War that ending
slavery is going to have to be a goal of the North. For one thing, the slaves
provide so much of the production for the South that interfering
with that production is really important for
the North to secure victory but it also is important
on a moral ground. Almost as soon as the war begins and slave men and women
in the South start going to Union lines hoping for
the army to protect them, they want to be part of the war effort, they interpret it as a war to end slavery long before Abraham Lincoln
interprets it as a war to end slavery. So it becomes clear by
the summer of 1862 that the Union is going to
have to deal with slavery, one way or another. - [Voiceover] Now, once
again, the reason why it's strategically important is
that this war is not going as well as the North would have hoped or as Lincoln would have hoped. It's lasting longer, the first years as we mentioned
in the previous video, the South was winning and it
was going on the offensive, and then also on the moral argument, it gave the North something
more to fight for. - [Voiceover] Yes, and even
in some pockets of the South, individual Union generals were even making their own small
Emancipation Proclamation. So it became clear that
the North was going to need an overall stance on whether
this was a war to end slavery. Lincoln decides, yes,
this is going to be a war to end slavery. - [Voiceover] And so, does
he announce it, you know, just all of a sudden, or,
is he kind of waiting for the right time? - [Voiceover] He's definitely
waiting for the right time. In the summer of 1862,
he makes the first draft of the Emancipation Proclamation, and even in the summer,
he shows it to the members of his cabinets, and they're shocked. Most of them are, themselves,
strongly abolitionist but they are terrified that
this document is going to be so revolutionary at a time
when the North is already struggling, that it's going to
force the border states out, that many of the whites in the North who don't care about the fate of slaves are going to leave the war effort, so they advise Lincoln
not to just proclaim the Emancipation Proclamation, but rather to wait for a big Union victory to kind of put a stamp on the document. - [Voiceover] And just to
make sure we understand, I mean, the fear of his advisors was not all the Union states were free states. You had states like Missouri and Kentucky and Maryland that were slave states but still part of the Union and so the fear is, if you emancipate, or if you make this
proclamation, all of a sudden, those states would leave. - [Voiceover] Right, and those
are very important states. They have a very large white population, relative to their enslaved population, which means that if they go to the South, all of those fighters
will go for the South, and it's also where a lot
of the South's industry is so it would mean that a
tremendous amount of man power and also industrial power
would join the South, so Lincoln and his
cabinet are very concerned about alienating these states. They want to make sure that their power doesn't go with the South. - [Voiceover] Does the
Emancipation Proclamation end slavery in those states, or the entire United States,
or just in the South, or just in the Confederate states? - [Voiceover] So this is a
strategy of military necessity, as Lincoln says. He specifically exempts
the border states from the Emancipation Proclamation. - [Voiceover] He exempts them? - [Voiceover] He exempts them. - [Voiceover] He says, this
does not apply to them. So, it's not a pure moral
grounds that slavery is evil and needs to be gone from the Earth. He's saying, in the states
that are trying to secede, he's banning slavery. - [Voiceover] Right, and,
he almost makes it like a form of enticement for
the South to come back. He says, here is my plan for emancipation. I am going to put it into effect on the first day of January, 1863. He puts it out in September of 1862 just after the Union victory at Antietam, so this big Union victory gives him the... - [Voiceover] Confidence, or-- - [Voiceover] The confidence. - [Voiceover] the backdrop, the context. - [Voiceover] The context - [Voiceover] to do this.
- [Voiceover] in which he can put the Emancipation
Proclamation out there, but he says, if the states that are in
rebellion come back into the Union before January 1st, then
it will be null and void. - [Voiceover] I see, so he's
still trying to get them back in the fold, and he's
willing to accept slavery, at least for the time being, if he can end this war that's
turning out far bloodier and far longer-lasting
than frankly anyone, especially folks in the North, had expected it to be, so didn't immediately
say, hey, no more slavery, which might have made the
South fight even harder. It's like, hey, well, I'm
going to make this effective in January 1863, which
would be another year, so you have a couple months to come back, come back to the mother ship so to speak. - [Voiceover] Right, and the
South does not take him up on this offer, so when
January 1st, 1863 rolls around he signs the Emancipation Proclamation. - [Voiceover] And, we
have some of the text of the Proclamation here, and
what I think is interesting, and we have this right
on the Khan Academy site, in one of the articles, is that, it doesn't have the
beauty of the Declaration of Independence or even the Constitution. It actually reads kind
of like a legal document. I mean, if I read this, "That on the first day of
January, in the year of our Lord, "one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-three, "all persons held as slaves
within any States or designated "part of a State," so it's kind of this legalese, "the people whereof shall
then be in rebellion against "the United States, shall
be then, thenceforth "and forever free, "and the Executive Government
of the United States, "including the military and
naval authority thereof, "will recognize and maintain
the freedom of such persons, "and will do no act or acts
to repress such persons, "or any of them in efforts, "in any efforts they make
for their actual freedom," which is a, in spirit a really nice thing to say, but it reads like a legal document and I could keep going and I
encourage the folks listening to read it, and it literally
lists the various states and as you mentioned, it's
much more of a decree. It's not this beautiful speech. - [Voiceover] Right, and we
know Lincoln for his beautiful speeches, the Gettysburg
Address is perhaps the most famous speech in American history, and so, it's a little bit
strange that, arguably, the most important thing
that Lincoln ever does is arguably the ugliest
piece of writing that Lincoln ever put out there. It's because he's a lawyer, and we forget sometimes
about Lincoln's background as a lawyer, but he practiced for decades, and so, what he's trying
to do here is really create an ironclad legal document that
no one can turn around later and say, "Well, here's a loophole." - [Voiceover] Yup, although
it has its moments. I mean, right here, "And upon this act, sincerely
believed to be an act "of justice, warranted
by the Constitution, "upon military necessity,
I invoke the considerate "judgment of mankind, "and the gracious favor of Almighty God," so, I mean, it's kind of, yeah, it's still kind of a legal, yeah, it's not moving to the passions or to the moral as much as, kind of, and he even also talks about, well, it is what it is. We'll let other people
judge it on their own. - [Voiceover] But, you know,
what's really important about the Emancipation Proclamation is from that point forward,
even though he's particularly putting this on the
southern states where any jurisdiction he has is really
just what can be enforced by the army, it turns the Union army
into an army of liberation, that as they go throughout the South, enslaved people will flock to them and want to contribute to the war effort and shortly after this, Lincoln will make it possible, one part of the Emancipation
Population is saying that African Americans can join
the Union army as soldiers, and so, they really, from this point forward, can play an active role, direct and recognized
role in ending slavery and this is really the moment when slavery truly starts to crumble.