Voiceover: Check out this ray of light. When it enters a new medium, like water, its path will bend, and the
larger the index of refraction of the new medium, the
more the light will bend from its initial direction
that it had in the air. This follows from Snell's Law, since if the index of
refraction is larger, the angle of the refracted
light must be smaller, and in order to have a smaller
angle from the normal line, the light ray has to bend more
from its initial direction. But here's the interesting thing, when you send in white light, composed of all visible wave lengths, the colors will disperse and
get separated from each other. We call this separation
of light, dispersion. So, why does dispersion happen? The reason for dispersion is
that the index of refraction for water and most other
materials are actually a function of the wavelength of the light. For instance, if you ask a physicist, or look up the index
of refraction of water, most sources would say the
index of refraction of water is 1.33, but what those
sources or physicists really mean is that
the index of refraction is pretty much 1.33 for
the entire visible range of wavelengths; however,
each visible wavelength has a slightly different
index of refraction in water. The index of refraction
of red light in water is about 1.33, but the index of refraction of blue light is closer to about 1.34. In fact, for most materials
the smaller the wavelength of the light, the larger
the index of refraction, which means smaller wavelength
light will bend more than larger wavelength light
will in most materials. This is why in water the violet
light would bend the most, since it has the smallest
wavelength for visible light. Blue light would bend slightly less, green light a little less, yellow light a little less than that, orange light even less, and red light would bend the least. So, remember, dispersion
and the rainbow patterns that emerge result from the fact that most materials have an index of refraction that's a function of the
wavelength of the light, and in most materials, the
smaller the wavelength, the more the light will bend.