(chiming music) - What do I think color is? (laughing) What is color? (gentle cheerful music) - (laughing) I can't answer that question. - (laughing) What is color? Color is a sensation. (chiming) - Color is a very personal thing. Color is very subjective. It can trigger like a visceral response. Like if you smell bacon, ah, bacon. You know, it's like if you
see certain kinds of colors, the same exact feeling. - I don't know. Ask some smart person here. Pick-- (laughing) - Color is a term that we use to describe a collection of attributes, hue and saturation and value, that describes how we see things. Hue is what the actual color
is in the rainbow spectrum. Is it more yellow, or is it more orange? Bluer or redder? Value is how bright something
is relative to something else. Is it white? Is it black? Is it some sort of middle grey? Saturation is how intense the color is? Is it more subdued and grey, or is it more vibrant, almost
fluorescence, you know? A fully saturated color
is quite eye popping. (electricity crackling) Color is everything to artists. - It wasn't until I
started working at Pixar that I think I had to think about color in a different way, to apply it to a narrative and it can mean something. - On Up, there was a
scene where Carl's house got burned by Muntz. It's really one of the
lowest points of the film, and it's this sunrise. Normally sunrises are very beautiful. It's the start of a new day, but for this one, we
wanted an angry sunrise. It was just this beautiful tone of red that was so dramatic for me. I think that was really cool. - Because the choice
of color is so critical to the story telling process, it's really important that we understand the science of the
choosing of those colors. The first thing to realize about color is that color is really made up of light. Light comprises different
wavelengths of energy, and when that energy
comes through our pupil onto our retina inside our eye, it becomes nerve impulses, signals, and eventually gets
processed by the brain. So the light is out in the real world. The color only really
exists inside your brain when you perceive it. (fireworks popping) In the rest of this lesson, we're gonna dive more into the science and perception of color. Let's go.