Voiceover: Let's look at a
few nucleophilic substitution reactions of alcohols. And I'm assuming that you have seen a SN-one and SN-two mechanism before. Let's start with a primary alcohol. So this is ethanol. It is a primary alcohol because the carbon bonded to the OH is bonded
to one other carbon. And primary alcohols react with HBR to form an alkyl bromide
to be a SN-two process. And so we have HBR a strong acid and we have ethanol which is
going to function as a base, so actually the first step
is to protonate the oxygen. So we got a proton transfer here. So lone pair of electrons in
the oxygen pick up this proton, and these electrons are
left behind on the bromine so we form our bromide anion here. So we got a bromide anion
negative one formal charge. So these electrons in here in blue, lets say that these are
these electrons right here on our bromide anion. So we are going to protonate the oxygen. So lets go ahead and show that
oxygen being protonated here. So there is still one
lone pair of electrons on this oxygen which gives this oxygen a plus one formal charge. So these electrons in magenta right here on this oxygen pick up this proton to form this bond right here. And so now we need to think about our SN-two type mechanisms. So in an SN-two type mechanism
we need a nucleophile, and we need an electrophile, and we are also going to
have our leaving group here. The reason why we protonate
the oxygen is to form a much better leaving group. So if we just had a nucleophile
attack ethanol right here we would have hydroxide
as a leaving group. That is not a good leaving group. Here we would have water
as our leaving group, which is what we are
going to see in a second. And so that helps this process occur. So lets think about this oxygen here withdrawing some electron density from this carbon that
I just marked in red. So this carbon in red is
the electrophilic portion. So the nucleophile is going
to attack the electrophile, so the bromide anion is going to function as a nucleophile and it's going
to attack our electrophile, and it's going to form a bond between the bromine and the carbon. At the same time, these electrons in here are going to come off onto the oxgyen. So a SN-two type mechanism
remember is concerted. So the bond that forms, this happens at the same time that this bond breaks and the electrons come off
onto our leaving group. So when we draw our final product, we would form ethyl
bromide or bromoethane. Lets put in our electrons right here. And so these electrons
in blue formed a bond between the carbon and the bromine. So this is the carbon
in the red down here, and so we form a bromoethane. We would also form water. So let me go ahead and draw in water. So H-two-0, which is a good leaving group because water is so stable. So we go ahead and think about
these electrons in green here coming off onto the oxygen
and that gives us water. So in an SN-two type
mechanism sometimes you can think about stereochemistry,
but not for this example. Because carbon in red right here, so this carbon in red right
here is not a chiral center. There are two hydrogens
attached to that carbon in red, and so this is our only product. This is the only thing that
we have to think about. So bromoethane as our final result. Alright lets look at
another SN-two reaction. This time we are doing
a secondary alcohol. And so here we have our secondary alcohol. The carbon bonded to the OH is bonded to two other carbons, so a secondary alcohol. And we saw at an earlier
video that alcohols will react with tosyl
chloride and pyridine to form a tosylate. So lets go ahead a draw the product. The first step we form a tosylate. We retain the stereochemistry. So we have a wedge over here and we have a wedge down here as well. So we have an oxygen and
then we will just put TS here for our abbreviation. So we talked in great detail
about this in an earlier video. So once again, this gives
us a better leaving group. So in the previous reaction
we protonated the oxgyen to give us a much better leaving group, and here we have an
excellent leaving group. So that's one of the reasons
for using tosylates here. So in the second step we are going to add sodium bromide and we
are going to get again a SN-two type mechanism. So a nucleophile is going
to attack our electrophile. So we can identify our electrophile. It's the carbon bonded to the oxygen. So the oxygen is withdrawing some electron density from this carbon, so this the electrophilic
portion of the molecule. And then once again our bromide anion is going to function as a nucleophile. So here is our bromide,
and I am going to highlight this lone pair of electrons
right here in blue. And so our bromide anion attacks our electrophilic carbon and forms a bond. At the same time, these electrons
come off onto the oxygen. So once again a concerted
SN-two type mechanism. And this time we do have to
worry about stereochemistry. So we have this wedge in here. We have this wedge, so this part is coming out at us in space. And so the bromide anion has to attack from the opposite side. And so if it is attacking
from the opposite side when you draw the final product, you would have to show this is a dash. So the bromide had to attack
from the opposite side which gives us inversion of configuration. Inversion of absolute configuration here. So when you assign your
absolute configuration, for your starting
alcohol, this would be R. So our chiral center would be right here. So this carbon is chiral and so this carbon is
chiral for our products, and for our product we would form the S in the [an-te-um] right here. So we formed S in the [an-te-um] row and we started with a R
in the [an-te-um] row. So a SN-two type mechanism
inversion of configuration because a nucleophile has to
attack from the opposite side. So lets look at one more example here. Lets do a SN-one mechanism
using a tertiary alcohol. So lets do that. So here we have tertbutyl
alcohol or tertbutanol reacting with concentrated
hydrochloric acid. So concentrated hydrochloric acid is going to function as an acid. Our alcohol is going
to function as a base. And let me just highlight
the fact that this is going to be a SN-one type mechanism because we have a tertiary alcohol. This carbon bonds to the OH
bond to three other carbons. And so the alcohol functions as a base, and is protonated and we would form the chloride anion here. So lets go ahead and draw that in. So we would have the chloride anion, so negative one formal charge. And lets go ahead and put those electrons in blue like we did before. So these electrons in here, lets say that those are these electrons. So the chloride anion. We protonate the oxygen, so
lets go ahead and draw that. So if we protonate the oxygen, now we have our tertbutyl group over here, protonate the oxygen so
a plus one formal charge on this oxygen so lets go
ahead and draw that in. So plus one formal charge on the oxygen. Electrons in magenta right
here picked up this proton. Lets say it is this bond right here. So once again we have an
excellent leaving group like we talked about before. Water is a good leaving group. And so in SN-one type mechanism, these electrons are going
to come off onto the oxygen, which gives us water. It also gives us a carbo cation. A plus one formal charge
on this carbon right here. This carbon red gets a
plus one formal charge, so that's this carbon
because it is losing a bond. So let me go ahead and
highlight the electrons that it is losing. So these electrons in
here are coming off onto the oxygen to form water. So we can go ahead and
draw water over here. So we lose water at this point. So H-two-O, and the
electrons in green come off onto this oxygen right
here so we form H-two-O. Taking a bond away from the carbon in red, so we form a carbo cation. So this is a stable carbo cation. This is a tertiary carbo cation. So that is why this
tertiary alcohol reacts via a SN-one type mechanism. The stability of the carbo cation. And so in our final step,
we have the nucleophile is going to attack our electrophile. So the nucleophile
attacks our electrophile. The chloride anion
attacks our carbo cation, attacks that carbon there and
so we form our final product, which is tertbutyl chloride. So let me go ahead and
draw in these electrons and lets highlight some again. The electrons in blue. These electrons form the bond, So they bonded right here. And so let me go ahead and
highlight this carbon in red. So this carbon in red
is this one right here. So we form tertbutyl chloride and we lost water in the process. So this is a very easy reaction to do. It occurs at room
temperature and just take tertbutanol and add some hydrochloric acid and just shake them
together and you can form your final product this way. So thinking about stereochemistry
and SN-one type mechanism, the carbon in red right
here is not a chiral center and so we don't have to
worry about what kind of stereochemical outcome that we would predict for the product. So this is our final product. There is no stereochemistry. Just to refresh your memory, for a SN-one type mechanism
because this formation of this carbo cation, this carbon and the carbo
cation is SP-two hybridized, and so it is planar. And so when we draw out
that carbon in red here. Lets say that's that carbon in red. It's SP-two hybridized, which means that the carbons that are directly bonded to
it lie on the same plane. So these carbons lie on the same plane. SP-two hybridized with a p orbital. So there is a p orbital. Lets sketch that in. So there is a plus one
formal charge in this carbon. So when your nucleophile attacks, your nucleophile could attack from either side of that plane. So the nucleophile could
attack from this side or it could attack from this side. So if your final product
has a chiral center, you need to think about stereochemistry. But not in this case. In this case we don't have one. So we lucked out. This one was a little bit straightforward. So that's a couple of examples of SN-one and SN-two reactions of alcohols.