OK. In this video, we're
going to show you how to make a power
connector for your Arduino. So the most important
thing to remember here is that the center pin of
our connector is positive. So we're going to connect our
red wire to the center pin, and we're just going to
loop it around in a loop and hook it through the
hole in the center pin. Once we've done that, we'll
crimp the wire to make sure it's firmly in place. And then we're going
to solder the wire so that it stays
where we put it. We're just using
our alligator clip on the helping hands
there to hold it in place. We're going to do the same thing
for the negative wire, which goes to the outside. Loop it through,
and then we're just going to crimp that in place. Make sure that we've got
a pretty good connection between the wire and the
metal, and then we're going to, again, solder that
wire in place. And once we've got those
two wires soldered in place, we need to put
something between them, otherwise they'll short
out next to each other. So we're going to just put
a piece of electrical tape between those two connections,
between the two wires there. And that'll keep them
from touching each other and shorting out. Now we're going to take a
piece of shrink wrap tubing and slide it up the wires
and to the connector. And this will just help
provide a nice snug fit against our final piece. So the shrink wrap
tubing is in place. Remember you want to make
sure that that shrink wrap tubing is a pretty snug fit. So we're just heating it
with our shrink wrap gun and it's all shrunk down now. And now we're going to
insert the plastic fitting, the collar, over the
shrink wrap tubing and just twist it into place
there on our connector. So now we almost have a
completely finished connector. So we're going to take
the bottom of the wires and insert them into our
five-volt power strip that we have. So the positive wire goes on
the positive side, the negative to the negative
side, and then we're just going to loop the
wires around and connect to our connector,
to our Arduino. And just push it into place. And now we're going to
test to see if it works. So we'll turn it on. And when we turn it on, you can
see a bright red LED light up. And we're looking for
green LED on the Arduino, and you can see that
right in the corner there. So we're ready to go.