- One of the most important
animal behaviors is foraging or the search for food within
an animal's environment because without this ability, the animal's not likely to be
able to survive and reproduce. But this behavior is an interesting one because there's kind of
a cost-benefit analysis that's associated with it. Obviously, an animal needs to
be able to do it to survive, but going out and getting food can actually take up a
lot of time and energy, so the animal needs to use
energy in order to gain it. And so the goal with foraging is always to figure out how to get
the highest energy yield while expending the least
amount of energy doing it. And the term foraging actually refers to a bunch of different behaviors. For example, it can
include looking for food, like this antelope right
here who's eating grass, but it can also include
things like stalking prey, which we can see in this picture with the tiger chasing antelope. There are two main foraging strategies that an animal can use, and it's actually what we see the tiger doing
in this picture right here, and that's solitary foraging. And actually, let me write that in orange to represent the tiger. So solitary foraging is
exactly what it sounds like. It's when an animal
looks for food by itself. The second type of foraging
we see is group foraging, and that's what lions do. And so I'll write that in yellow here. And this is when animals
look for food in groups. And one thing that's both good
and bad about this strategy is that in this case,
hunting would not only depend on your own behavior,
but also the behavior of those around you. And so this can actually lead
to competition within a group, especially when resources are scarce. But there can also be many
benefits to this strategy. When many animals are working together, it means that predators
can take down larger prey or difficult or more aggressive prey, so it can also be to the benefit
of everyone in that group. Aside from looking at just strategies, another question that
scientists typically have about foraging concerns
how animals figure out how to do it in the first place. And obviously, foraging behavior is probably driven strongly by genetics, but it turns out that
information about foraging can also be gained
through animal learning. For example, in some species
like many kind of primates, young members of a group learn to forage by watching the adults and
copying their behavior. In doing this, they learn
not only how to hunt but also what kinds of things
they should be hunting.