- [Instructor] In this
video I wanna look at how the actions of Spain and
Portugal in the 16th century helped to create a global economy. And when I say a global economy, I mean that this was the
first time in history that so much of the world
was linked together by trade. And before we dive into exactly
how Spain and Portugal's actions contributed to the
creation of a global economy, I wanna start at the end of
our timeline in the year 1598 with a story that should
help to illustrate how interconnected the world had become at the end of the 16th century. So in 1598 a fleet of ships
left the Netherlands to trade. So these are Dutch ships. And one of the sailors
on this fleet of ships is an Englishman named William Adams. This fleet of ships sails
down the coast of Africa. They stop off West Africa here, they trade as many European
ships would do at this time. Then they sailed around South America and ended up off the coast of Peru. And at this point William Adams
started keeping a journal, and he tells us, it was agreed that we should
leave the coast of Peru and direct our course for Japan. Having understood that cloth
was good merchandise there and also how upon that coast of Peru the king's ships were out seeking us. And the king that Adams
was referring to here is the king of Spain. Peru is a Spanish colony at this time, and the fleet which again
is from the Netherlands is worried about this
because the Netherlands are at war with Spain. The Netherlands are rebelling
against Spanish rule at this time. And this is evidence
for a couple of points that illustrate again how interconnected the world economy was. First, they know about Japan, and they know how to get there. Second, they also have
some idea of what kind of merchandise might be valuable
to try and trade in Japan. So they do sail to Japan,
they make it there, and they end up as prisoners
of the Japanese emperor. And while they're prisoners in Japan, there are Portuguese
priests also living in Japan who are trying to convince
the Japanese emperor that he should execute
these Dutch and English sailors as pirates. The emperor decides that he's
not going to execute them. If they wanna trade and he
wants what they have to trade, they can trade, and then
he forces William Adams, the Englishman, to stay and
help his navy build ships. And this is how Adams
ends up in a position where he can help the English
open up trade with Japan a few years later. And I mentioned early
on that Portugal was one of the major contributors
to this new global economy, and we see in Adams' story
that there are Portuguese priests in Japan in the year 1600. So that raises the question of, how did these Portuguese
priests end up in Japan? Well to understand that, we actually jump back to the
beginning of our timeline when in 1498 a Portuguese
sailor named Vasco da Gama made it around the south coast of Africa and sailed to the Indian city of Calicut, and this was the beginning
of the Portuguese Empire in the Indian Ocean and the East Indies. And historians who study
the Portuguese Empire oftentimes will call it
a trading post empire, and what they mean by that
is that the Portuguese did not try to actively conquer
large chunks of territory. Instead they would find
existing trading centers and try to insert themselves
into those trade networks. So they would set up
trading posts or factories, and there's a drawing
here from the late 1500s from the city of Calicut
showing the Portuguese factory. It's the building here
that looks like a castle sitting in the existing city. And these aren't
factories like we think of in the Industrial Revolution
where they're making things in them. These factories are really
more like warehouses where they store goods
until the ships can come and pick them up. So the Portuguese are expanding
their trading post empire in the Indian Ocean and the East Indies, and in 1542, the government of China grants them the right to trade
from the island of Macau. And one of the things that
China really wants is silver, and they want silver because
they have paper money and they want silver to
back up the paper currency so that it maintains its value. And Japan produces silver. So the Portuguese end up
trading Chinese porcelain and silk with Japan in exchange for silver that they then bring back to China. And another thing the Portuguese
bring along with trade goods is religion in the form
of priests and missionaries. And hopefully at this point
you see how Portuguese priests might have ultimately ended up in Japan by the time that William Adams
and his crew landed there. And while all this is going
on in the Eastern Hemisphere, Spain is building a huge
colonial empire in the Americas. And when we see a colonial empire, we mean that they are
sending Spanish colonists to live in these conquered territories and expand Spanish influence. And it becomes large enough
and populous enough that Spain has to set up colonial governments, and in 1535 they create The
Viceroyalty of New Spain in this area. It's named for a Viceroy,
literally a vice king or someone who is in place of the king, to rule over that colony on his behalf. And then in 1542, they create the Viceroyalty
of Peru in this area, which is the same Peru that William Adams was referring to in his diary from 1600. And in these Spanish viceroyalties, plantations are one
major source of wealth. And a plantation is
essentially a large farm that produces crops that are very valuable that can be exported and
sold for high profits. The other major source
of wealth in the Americas was mining, and especially silver mining. Because in the mid 1540s at
Zacatecas in modern day Mexico and at Potosi in modern day Bolivia, the Spanish find giant deposits of silver, some of the largest silver
deposits in the world. And this has two major
impacts on this global economy that is starting to form. So the first impact we wanna highlight is is that on labor in the Americas. So maintaining and operating
plantations and mines is really brutal hard work, to the point where people will
die doing this kind of work. And the Spanish who
are colonizing the area were not doing this work on their own. And on top of this they're
increasing production in plantations and in
mines so they just need more and more labor. So they start to turn to
enslaved African workers. So in terms of our
globally connected economy that's developing, what
we see now is West Africa is brought even more into
these trading networks and relationships with the
Spanish and the Portuguese. Prior to this point, West
Africa was a trading area for the Portuguese and for the Spanish, especially for things like gold and ivory and certain spices, but now West Africa also
became a place where the Spanish and the Portuguese
would buy enslaved workers. And this had some major effects
on West African economies. Not only were there more
and more European goods coming into these places, there were also some
West African societies that restructured their
economies around capturing and selling slaves as the demand
for enslaved workers grew. The other major impact of
these silver discoveries in terms of creating this global economy had to do with that silver
trade that the Portuguese were carrying out between
Japan and Ming China. At this point and time Ming
China was the largest state, the largest empire, in terms
of population in the world, so despite the distance
and the risks involved, Spain was now looking
for a way to get to China to trade this silver. In 1521, Ferdinand Magellan
had claimed the Philippines for Spain. Spain didn't colonize them at the time, but in 1565 the Spanish
sent a group of colonists to settle in the Philippines
and from this venture, part of this group ends up figuring out how they can sail across the Pacific Ocean from the Philippines to New
Spain, modern day Mexico. And this opens up what
becomes the galleon trade in the Pacific. A galleon is a large sailing ship, and it's really useful
for long distance trade because it's big and it
can hold a lot of cargo, and it also carries guns to defend itself. So from the 1570s forward, you now have a regular
trade going on where silver from the Americas is
being shipped to Manila in the Philippines where it's traded on to Chinese traders for things
like porcelain and silk, and then those goods are
shipped back to the Americas to the port of Acapulco
where they're transported across land, loaded onto
ships along with other silver that's been mined and sent back to Spain. So the final piece of this global economy really falls into place in
1580 with the Iberian Union. And the Iberian Union refers to a time when the king of Spain also became the king of Portugal, and Spain and Portugal are
on the Iberian Peninsula so that's where we get Iberian Union. At this point we know that
Portugal had a really large global empire with lots of trade, Spain had a large global
empire with lots of trade, and now both of those empires
are ruled by the same king. So all of these trade
networks become essentially part of the same empire. Now we have this situation
where demand for silver in Europe and in China is
having impacts on labor systems in the Americas, which in turn is having
impacts on populations in West Africa. And to go back to the
beginning of our story, this deeply interconnected
global trade network is also the reason that by the year 1600, we can see an Englishman sail to Japan with a Dutch fleet and run into a group of Portuguese priests while he's there. Another way to think about this
is that William Adams' story was only possible because
of what Spain and Portugal did throughout the 16th
century to create these long distance trade networks.