You can make mesylates and
tosylates from alcohols. And you might want to do this,
because mesylates and tosylates are better leaving groups. So if we look at a general
reaction to form a tosylate, you would start with an alcohol
and you'd add tosyl chlorides and also pyridine, and you would
form your tosylate over here on the right. When we look at the mechanism,
we start with tosyl chloride. If you focus in on
the sulfur here, the sulfur is bonded to
two oxygens and a chlorine. And we know that
oxygen and chlorine are more electronegative
than sulfur, so they're going to
withdraw some electron density from that sulfur. And so since sulfur's losing
some electron density, the sulfur becomes
partially positive, and we have an
electrophilic center. So the sulfur wants electrons. It can get electrons
from the alcohol, so a lone pair of
electrons on the alcohol here can attack the sulfur,
so nucleophile attacks the electrophile. And these electrons could kick
off onto the chlorine here to form the chloride anion. And let's go ahead and
draw what we would make. So we would have an R group. We would have an oxygen. The oxygen would now
be bonded to sulfur. We would also have
still a hydrogen attached to that
oxygen, and we'd still have a lone pair of
electrons on that oxygen. So the oxygen gets a
plus 1 formal charge. The sulfur is still double
bonded to this oxygen and to another oxygen. And then we still have our
ring attached to the sulfur. So put in our pi electrons
here, and-- oops. That was a bad one. Let me fix that. So we have our pi electrons
right here, and then a methyl group like that. So let's go ahead and
follow those electrons. So the electrons in magenta
right here on the oxygen formed a new bond to
the sulfur, so here are those electrons in magenta. And the next step,
we're going to take the proton off the oxygen here. And so the pyridine is
going to function as a base. The lone pair of
electrons on nitrogen is going to take this proton,
leaving these electrons behind on the oxygen. So let's go ahead and
draw what we would form. We would have an R group. We would have an
oxygen, and our oxygen would have now two lone
pairs of electrons. And we would have our
sulfur double bonded to this oxygen, double
bonded to this oxygen. And then we would have
our ring like this. So let me just sketch that in
really quickly, so we would have electrons here,
here, and here. Our methyl group. And let's follow some
of those electrons. So the electrons
in this bond now end up on the oxygen like that. And we formed our
toluenesulfonate ester, so also called a tosylate, so
this is the exact same thing. So this compound and this
compound are the same, the top way is just a
way to abbreviate it. And so we formed our tosylate. So one reason to
form a tosylate would be to have a better nucleophilic
substitution reaction. So let's look at first
forming a tosylate from this alcohol
over here on the left. And so we know that this
carbon is a chiral center, so that as a chiral center. But if we're forming a
tosylate, the tosylate forms at this oxygen here. So let's go ahead
and draw the product. We'd still have a wedge here,
because again the reaction does not occur at the
chirality center, the reaction occurs
at the oxygen here. So the oxygen would
now be bonded, so we'd form a tosylate group,
which is a much better leaving group than this OH over here. So the tosylate's an
excellent leaving group for nucleophilic
substitution reactions. So if we went ahead and a did
a nucleophilic substitution reaction, we could add something
like sodium bromide, so Na plus and Br minus. So if this was an
SN2 type mechanism, the bromide anion would
attack this carbon right here, which is
a little bit positive, so we have a partially
positive carbon right here. And then we get nucleophilic
attack from the bromide anion, so it attacks right here. And then SN2 type
mechanism, you're going to get inversion
of configuration. So you go ahead and draw
your products like that. And so the formation
of a tosylate just makes this
process much easier. We could talk about formation
of another good leaving group and that's a mesylate, so
very similar to a tosylate. So if we look at the
general reaction, once again we start
with an alcohol. This time we add mesyl
chloride, and this time triethylamine as
the base that we will use to form our mesylate
over here on the right. The mechanism is a little bit
different from the formation of a tosylate, so let's go ahead
and look and see what happens. At first, the triethylamine
is going to function as a base and take this proton right here,
so these electrons are going to remain behind on this carbon. So triethylamine
reacts with-- this is mesyl chloride right here. So if we take a
proton off, let's go ahead and draw
what we would have. We would have our sulfur double
bonded to this oxygen, sulfur double bonded to another
oxygen, the chlorine right here. And we would now have a carbon
bonded to only two hydrogens and a lone pair of
electrons on this carbon, so it's a carbanion, so it's
a negative 1 formal charge. So let's show those electrons. So these electrons in
this bond were left behind on the carbon to
form our carbanion. So in the next step,
these electrons in magenta are going to move
in here to form a double bond between the
sulfur and the carbon, and that would kick these
electrons off onto chlorine to form the chloride anion. And let's go ahead and
draw what we would make. So now we would have sulfur,
sulfur would be double bonded to an oxygen, sulfur is double
bonded to another oxygen, and now there's a double bond
between sulfur and this carbon. This carbon is bonded to
two hydrogens like that. Once again, we can think about
sulfur as being electrophilic, because this sulfur
right here is bonded to these oxygens, which
are more electronegative. They're going to
withdraw electron density from that sulfur, leaving that
sulfur partially positive. And so our electrophilic
center, once again we're going to have our alcohol
function as a nucleophile. So a lone pair of
electrons on our alcohol are going to go all
the way to here, they're going to attack
our electrophile, and when they do that they
push these electrons back off onto the carbon. So let's get a little
more space down here so we can draw what happens. So this is a sulfine
right here, so the alcohol attacks the sulfine
nucleophile, electrophile. Now let's go ahead and
draw what we would make. So now we would have an R
group bonded to an oxygen. We would have a hydrogen. And this is the oxygen
from the alcohol, which attacked the sulfur
so now there's a bond between the
oxygen and the sulfur. There's still a lone pair
of electrons on that oxygen, giving it a plus
1 formal charge. And the sulfur is double bonded
to this oxygen, double bonded to this oxygen, and
bonded to this carbon. This carbon has two
hydrogens on it. It also has a lone
pair of electrons, so that's a negative
1 formal charge. So once again, let's
identify those electrons. So these electrons right here
moved off onto the carbon to form our carbanion. And we could identify some
electrons on our alcohol, too. So let's make it red here. These electrons right
here on the oxygen, those are the ones that form
the bond between the oxygen and the sulfur, so you could
say that those electrons are these electrons in here. And so in the last
step of our mechanism, the carbanion is going
to function as a base. And this lone pair
of electrons here is going to take this proton,
leaving these electrons behind on our oxygen. So let's go ahead and
draw what we would make. So we would have an R group
over here, we would have oxygen, and the oxygen would have
two lone pairs of electrons. The oxygen is
bonded to a sulfur. The sulfur is double bonded
to this oxygen, double bonded to this oxygen. And then we would have
a CH3 group over here. So a CH3 group,
because this carbon-- I'm going to go ahead and
identify it in magenta. This carbon picked
up this proton here-- so you could say it's that
one if you wanted to-- and we formed our mesylate. So this is the exact same thing. We could just
abbreviate it here. We could say it's R,
O, and then an Ms here. So that's how to form
mesylates and tosylates, which are excellent leaving groups.