Now, why don't we take a
step back and take a look at how muscles work on
more of a macro level? So why don't we start out by
just drawing a little muscle right here. Let's say this is just the
bicep, and on either side, there's a little
bit of tendon that's kind of attached
to it right here. So that's some tendon, so
I'll label that right there. And that's just
some tendon that's on either side of our
muscle, our bicep right here. And the tendon attaches our
muscle over to some bone, so there's a little
bone right there. There's a little
bone right there. Label these guys. So that's one bone end, and
then here's another one. So if it's our bicep, it's
anchored onto our humerus. This is our bicep, right? So I'll just draw it in the arm. Here, this guy's sort
of flexing right there, coming down to the elbow. There. And if we want a
better idea of what's going on here in
this bicep, this muscle, why don't
we just take a cut. So let me just cut
right about there. We've got a cross-sectional
look at what's going on in our muscle. So here's a little cut we
just did right about here. Our muscle just hanging
out in the middle, sort of that same shape
that comes down about here. And we've still got
our tendon, of course, that's anchoring our
muscle over to our bone. Don't forget the tendon
that's still right here. And the tendon is just a
type of connective tissue, and this is somewhat continuous
with the connective tissue that covers the outermost layer
of our muscle right here. So I'm just drawing that in. This outer layer of
muscle we've got here is called the
epimysium, and that's continuous with the
tendon, and it's supposed to help
protect our muscle here so it doesn't shear against the
bone or all the other things that are in the
compartment of our arm, if we're talking
about the bicep. But as you know, this can
apply to the muscles in our leg or in our jaw when
we're chewing-- anything that we control. So in addition to this
connective tissue layer, there's another
connective tissue layer that's on the inside right
here, underneath the epimysium. And so this connective
tissue layer I'll just draw as a circle
or as a sheath that's kind of sitting around here. This guy is called
the perimysium, and this perimysium
covers subunits of muscle that sit right here. And there's a bunch of them, and
they all have their own names. So I'll take this one right here
and just kind of draw it out a little more so we can
take a closer look inside. So this little dude
right here, this muscle subunit that's covered
by this perimysium that I'm shading in right here. This is called a fascicle. It's got two names, actually. So it can be called a fascicle--
fas-kick-el-- C-I-C-L-E. It's also known as a fasciculus. So it depends on whether
you're talking about fascicles or a single fasciculus,
whatever term you want to use. And then within each
of the fascicles, there's another
connective tissue layer. This is called the endomysium. Now, this covers
individual muscle cells. So finally, we've reached
the individual muscle cells. I'll draw one of these
dudes coming out right here. This is an individual
muscle cell that's covered by
the endomysium. And so the muscle cell that
I'm writing out over here-- it has a special name, as well. So we can call it a muscle
cell, but we can also call it a myo-- myo
meaning muscle-- fiber. So this is shaped like a
fiber, because it is longer than it is wide. And again, this endomysium,
just like the perimysium, contains nerves
and blood vessels that can help conduct
neuronal signals and blood towards the individual myofiber
and the connective tissue that sits around here. OK, so now that we've
gotten to the muscle cell, why don't we just
scroll down a little bit and just focus in on this guy. Now, while we might be
tempted to draw the muscle cell just kind of like that
fiber that I just drew over there, like this
sort of rectangle, we remember in fact that it's
shaped a little differently-- like a pipe that has a
couple of bumps outside. Do you guys remember? Why do we have bumps on the
outside of our muscle cells or the outside of our myofibers? I think I heard one of you said,
because there are nuclei that sit on the outskirts
of our muscle cells. And that is absolutely correct. This is a single nucleus
that I'm drawing right here. Here's one nucleus. And this is sort of
the storage unit of DNA that can help us
replicate or make more of our myofibers
or our muscle cells, and they sit on the
outskirts of our myofiber, towards sort of the edge
of our plasma membrane. This plasma membrane has
a special name in muscle. It's called the sarcolemma. We've got a couple
of important prefixes that we mentioned here. Remember I mentioned
myo from above? Myo just means muscle. Just keep that in the
back of your mind. And then sarco--
whenever you see sarco, that refers
to just flesh. And we often see this
in the context of muscle because the covering
of our muscle cell right here, that membrane,
we call it the sarcolemma. The cytoplasm right here
that's within the muscle cell-- we call that the sarcoplasm. And as we get further
in, we're also going to talk about
the sarcomere. And so we're talking about
our myofiber right here-- let me just make it look
a little more tubular. So the myofiber itself,
this muscle cell, has a bunch of smaller
units within it, too. And these smaller
units are where we have our main
contractions occurring. So I'm going to draw one of
these guys out right here, and this is just called the
myo-- like muscle-- fibril. Not fiber, but myofibril. Now we've come to where
we're storing our myosin and our actin that's
sitting inside here. This is where the actual
contraction will occur. So if we look at our muscle
cells under a microscope, we'll see that they've got
these striations on them, these bands, because
remember, another name for skeletal muscle is
striated skeletal muscle. So they have these
lines that are here that you'll see
under a microscope. So if we blow that
up-- let me just get some space down
here to talk about it. So if I were to draw just
a blown-up version of it right here, we'd have our
striation line right there. I'll draw another one
right here and right here. Just put it in this line
in this box right here. And we have all
these bands that we would see under the
microscope, right? So we have the striations
that are on the sides, and there are these
bands that are kind of going across this
unit right here that we're looking at. Now, what are these
striations right here? Well, we talked
about these before. Sal mentioned these
are the z-lines. So the z-lines are
these striations we see under the microscope,
and so I've drawn three of them here for you guys. Z-lines, then we'll just
connect that one back here. And remember, the space
between two z-lines, going from here all the way to
here-- that's the sarcomere, and this is our most
basic unit of contraction. This is where we're going to
have our actin and our myosin fibers interact and have
us flex, at our most macro level we'll get
back to in a second. And there are different parts
of the sarcomere, right? There is the part
that's designated the A-band that's in the middle. There's this other part
up here called the I-band. All right. So let's focus in on a
single sarcomere right here. So I'm drawing the
outskirts of our sarcomere, of course, so that's
going to be our z-line. That's hanging out
on either side. I've drawn two of them here. Anchored to our Z-line is going
to be our actin filaments. Here are the actin filaments
that we've heard about before. I'll just label this. This is our actin filament. Remember, sitting inside
is going to be our myosin, and our myosin filament--
remember, it's got two heads and it's associated right
here with the actin. It wants to kind of
pull on the actin and just crawl along the actin. I'll draw one here, as well. Myosin heads-- two
myosin heads right there. And they're attached top
and bottom like that. And they just want to
walk across, all right? I want to make sure that
I draw that here, too. And you get the
picture down here. And so anchoring our myosin
filaments in the sarcomere is going to be titin. We'll just draw the titin here. It's not attached to
the ends of the myosin, but you can kind of see
that it's holding it in place from somewhere
deeper in right there. So that's our titin. And again, this is
our myosin, this guy. Myosin filaments with the
two heads that come up. And at this point,
we can appreciate some of the bands we
talked about over here. The part that's both myosin
and actin is called the A-band. That's the A-band that we drew
on the left side over here. And the part that's
only actin that doesn't involve any
of the myosin-- that's this point right here,
and it continues on into the other sarcomere. This is the I-band. The I-band. And the way I think about it,
I kind of looks like a one, right? So it's got one of our
two major filaments. And then A is the alternative
one, the other one, that's got myosin
and actin in it. So that's the A-band
and the I-band. So now when you
recall-- so there's this axon fiber that's
going to come in and release a message, an action
potential that's going to come here and
depolarize our sarcolemma. It's going to sort
of spread everywhere. It's not just going to
go in one direction. And one of the things that
we have in our sarcolemma are t-tubules that can allow the
depolarization, or this action potential, to go deep
within our muscle cell or our myofiber to cause
the sarcoplasmic reticulum to release calcium. Calcium then, as you remember,
goes on to bind troponin. Troponin that's
sitting on our actin will then tell tropomyosin,
get the heck out of the way. And then our myosin filaments
that we drew right here can go ahead and use ATP
to sort of walk along our actin filaments. And so they would sort
of walk along this way, and they would, relatively
to the actin filament, stand still. They would be crawling this
way, but wouldn't really do any of the moving. They'd be anchored down. It's the actin filaments,
actually, that move. The actin filaments are
going to be moving closer in to the center, and
that effectively causes our I-band
to get smaller. The I-band is going
to get smaller when we have our
sarcomere contract. And because the A-band involves
however far the myosin spreads, the A-band does not change. Only the I-band changes
here, as we effectively bring the two z-lines
closer to each other and shorten the length
of our sarcomere. And that's what's happening on
our most micro-molecular level right here, with the
sarcomere contracting. And all of that began
with this axon fiber spreading the signal. So I hope you can
appreciate, just kind of going from the
top right here, when we're contracting
our skeletal muscle and we go through all these
smaller layers, what's happening at this
molecular level right here. What's allowing us to contract,
to flex our arm or kick a ball or do something of that nature. And I hope that
you found all this to be somewhat useful to you.