- Taxonomy it's the science
of classifying living things. That sounds exciting. Today we'll basically be learning the Dewey Decimal System of evolution. It's like filing must be
on the edge of your seat. Okay. Shut up. When it comes down to it the science doesn't just
categorize organisms when you look a little deeper you realize it's telling the
story of all life on Earth. And it's a pretty good story. (pop music) Every living thing on this planet is related to every other living thing. If you go far enough back we all have a common ancestor, an organism that both you
and I are descended from or something that a starfish and a blue whale are both descended from or even weirder than an oak tree and a salmon are both descended from. That organism lived had
lived very long ago, but it was here and I dig that. The trick of taxonomy is
basically figuring out where all those branches of
the evolutionary tree are and finding some convenient
labels to help us understand all of these
remarkable interrelationships. Let's be clear though, taxonomy isn't about describing life and all of its ridiculous detail. it's mostly about helping
humans understand it because it's way too
complicated without structure. To get that structure biologists
use the taxonomic system to classify all the
organisms on the earth. It's sometimes called
the phylogenetic tree or the tree of life. And it illustrates the evolutionary relationships between all living species. So there are about two
million known species, but there could be anywhere from five million to 100 million species. Scientists really have no freaking idea. New species keep getting
discovered all the time and the more organisms
we have to keep track of the more complex the
phylogenetic tree becomes. So there's not always a consensus about how to classify this stuff. There's a lot of gray
area in the natural world actually let me rephrase that. The natural world is one giant gray area. Sometimes it's hard to know where to put a certain group of organisms and eventually the group gets so big the classification system has to be messed with to make room for it. So the system is imperfect, but it's good enough that we've been using
it for around 250 years. (sniffs) What's that? Do you smell a biolo-graphy coming on? (Sweet piano music) Carl Linnaeus was a Swede born in 1707 and early in his career as a botanist he realized that the
botanical nomenclature of 18th century Europe,
was well just crap. For instance in his day the formal name of a tomato plant was Solanium caule inerme herbaceo, follis pinnatis incisis,
racemis simplicibus. Linnaeus actually said once, I shudder at the sight of most botanical names
given by modern authorities. Not only did the sloppiness bother him. He saw a whole sugar storm blowing in because new plants were still
being discovered in Europe, but that was nothing
compared to the crazy stuff that was coming from the New World. Linnaeus saw that pretty
soon naming conventions we're just gonna collapse under all these new things
to name and then what. So Linnaeus famously started
off by naming himself. He came from a peasant family and at that time surnames
were just for rich people. So when Carl went to college
they asked him for his surname and he just made one up
Linnaeus after the linden trees that grew on his family's homestead. Linnaeus got a medical degree and became a professor
at Uppsala University where he devoted himself to
the study of nomenclature. He had his students go to places and bring back specimens for
him to study and categorize. The method he eventually
adopted was based on morphology or physical form and structure. This wasn't necessarily a new idea. Back then people grouped
organisms by analogous or homoplastic traits. Structures that appear similar but actually come from
completely independent origins. By this definition birds
would be more closely related to butterflies than to reptiles because both birds and
butterflies can fly. But Linnaeus had a good
mind for this stuff and turned out to have a real knack for choosing actual homologous traits for his classification system, traits that stem from a
common evolutionary ancestor. Linnaeus of course didn't
know jack about evolution. Darwin wouldn't come around
for another 100 plus years, but he intuited that some traits were more important than others. For instance he was struck by the fact that reproductive apparatus seemed to be a good way of classifying plants. He also caused a bit of a scandal by classifying class mammalia
based on the female abilities to produce milk from their nipples because apparently that was
pretty racy stuff back then. In his lifetime when asked
catalogued roughly 7700 plants and 4400 animals. He published his classifications in a catalogue called Systema Naturae which by the time he wrote its 12th edition was 2300 pages long. In the meantime Linnaeus
actually adopted a personal motto God created, Linnaeus organized. Although taxonomy has come
a long way since Linnaeus, we still use a bunch of the
conventions that he invented. For instance we still
arrange things into taxa or groups of organisms and we still use the
same taxa as Linnaeus, kingdom, phylum, class, order,
family, genus and species. We also still Linnaeus convention
of binomial nomenclature, using a unique two part
name for every species, the genus and its species name
in Latin or sort of Latinish. This practice actually started
back in the middle ages when educated people were
expected to know Latin. We know a lot less Latin now, but we know a lot more about evolution which Linnaeus didn't. And we have technologies
like genetic testing to classify relationships
between organisms and yet we still use Linnaeus
morphology based system because genetic evidence generally agrees with classifications that are made based on structure and form. However because there was a lot of life that Linnaeus had no idea about, we had to stick a new taxa
above Linnaeus kingdom, we call it domain and it's as broad as you can get. So domains are bacteria,
Archaea and Eukarya. The bacteria and the
Archaea are prokaryotes meaning that their genetic material goes commando with no
nucleus to enclose it, while the Eukarya make up all of the life forms with a nucleus and include pretty much all of the life that you think of as life and quite a lot of the life that you don't think about at all. It might seem like since all macroscopic
life only gets one domain, it's kind of silly to
give prokaryotes too. And for a long time we didn't, we didn't divide
them up into different domains. They hung out together in a
single domain called Monera, but it later became clear that bacteria which live pretty much everywhere on Earth including inside of you and
deep in the Earth's crust and Archaea which are even more hardy than bacteria have distinct
evolutionary histories. Archaea being more closely
related to eukaryotes and yes thus me and you, they have totally different cell membranes and the enzymes that
they used to make RNA, their RNA polymerase
is much more like ours. Under the domain Eukarya which is by far the most interesting and even occasionally adorable domain, we have kingdoms protista, fungi, plantae and animalia. Our scientists have settled
on these four for now, but these are categories
that are a human creation but there are good reasons
for that human creation. The unscientific truth
is that we looked at life and divided it up based on what we saw, so we were like well protist
are single celled organisms so they are very different
from the rest of the domain and plants get their energy from the sun and fungi look and act
very different from plants and animals and you know we
already know what animals are so they have to get their own kingdom and those scientists are
sometimes loath to admit it. That system of just looking and dividing things up actually
worked pretty well for us. Not perfectly but pretty well. There's a reason why this worked so well, evolutionarily there
are actual categories. Each of these kingdoms is a
huge branch in the tree of life. At each branch an
evolutionary change occurred that was so massively helpful that it spawned a vast
diversity of descendants. Plants or plantae are the
autotrophs of the domain Eukarya. Autotrophs meaning that they can feed themselves through photosynthesis Of course. There's cellulose based cell walls and chloroplasts giving
them a distinct difference from all other multicellular life. There are two other sorts of trophs. There's the heterotrophs which get their energy
by eating other organisms and the chemotrophs which are weird and crazy and only show
up in bacteria and Archaea and they get their energy from chemicals. Now the kingdom protista is weird because it contains both
autotrophs and heterotrophs, Some protist can photosynthesize while others eat living things. Protists are basically a bunch of weird eukaryotic
single celled organisms that may or may not be
evolutionarily related to each other. Scientists are still
trying to figure it out, some are plant like, like algae, some are more animal like, like amoebas and some are fungus like, like slime mold. Protists are one of those gray areas I was telling you about, so don't be surprised if by the time you're teaching this to
your biology students there are more than four
kingdoms in Eukarya. Fungi which are the funguses. They include mushrooms
and Smuts and puff balls and truffles and molds and yeasts and they're pretty cool because they have cell walls like plants, but instead of being made of cellulose they're made of another
carbohydrate called chitin, which is also what the beak
of a giant squid is made of or the exoskeleton of a beetle. Because fungi are
heterotrophs like animals they have these sort of digestive enzymes that break down their
food and get reabsorbed, but they can't move, so they don't require a
stomach for digestion. They just grow on top of
whatever it is they're digesting and digest it right where it
is which is super convenient. And finally we have kingdom Animalia which is the lovely Kingdom
that we find ourselves. And 100% of adorable organisms in animals are multicellular always, we are heterotrophic, so we spend a lot of
time hunting down food because we can't make it ourselves and almost all of us can move at least during some
stage of our life cycle and most of us develop either
two or three germ layers during embryonic development. Wait for it unless you're a sponge. So like I said we used
this taxonomic system to describe the common ancestry and evolutionary history of an organism. Looking at the phylogenetic tree you can tell that humans are more closely related
to mice than we are to fish and more closely related to
fish than we are to fruit flies. So how about we pick an organism and we follow it all
the way through the taxa from Kingdom to species
just to see how it works. I know. Let's pick this kitty
because I know she'd like it. Right cat. So kitties have cells that have nuclei and membranes around organelles and they're multicellular
and heterotrophic and have three germ layers of
cells when they're embryos, so they're in the kingdom Animalia and they have a spinal cord
running down their backs protected by vertebra
and discs in between them and they have a tail that
doesn't have a butt hole at the end of it like a worm
which I'm really glad about. And that puts her in the phylum Chordata. Kitty clearly does not like this, so I'm going to put her down now. And the kitty lactates, gives birth to young like a cow instead of laying eggs like a chicken and they have fur and
three special tiny bones in their ears that only mammals have. So they're in the class Mammalia, so she's more closely related
to cow than to chicken. Good to know. And like a bunch of
other placental mammals that eat meat like weasels, the mustelids and dogs, the canines, kitties are in the order carnivora and they're in the cat family Felidae whose members have live
bodies and roundish heads and except for cheetahs retractable claws and they're littler
than tigers and panthers which puts them in the genus Felis. And then at the level of the species the descriptions get pretty dang detailed, so let's just say that
you know what a cat is. So the species name is catus. I like it that Felis catus. No kitty, I could have the whole thing cross-stitched onto a
pillow for you to sleep on and it would be cute.