- [Instructor] From our first lesson focusing on the migration
of indigenous people to the landmass that today
comprises the United States, we've made it all the way to the present, a journey in time of
more than 15,000 years. We've looked most closely
at the last 500 years starting with the arrival of
Europeans in the Americas. Now, in this last unit we're focused just on the last 40
years of American history from 1980 until the present. How can we examine something that's so close to us in time? We're still in this era. It doesn't have a name, not like the Gilded Age
or the Revolutionary Era, at least not yet. Maybe this is the post-Cold War era or the post-9/11 era? Maybe it will be defined by the changes brought by technology and we'll call it the Information Age. Trying to think historically
about the present gives us a better understanding of what it was like to live in the past, to not know what was coming next or how to interpret
all the complex threads of politics, society, and culture weaving together around you. Life is messy and confusing. We don't know if we're
living in a tragic era or a triumphant one, neither did the people who lived in 1940 or 1860 or 1770. So years from now when historians write about the period from 1980 to 2020 in the United States what will they say? Well, let's pretend for a few minutes that we are those
historians from the future. Maybe we're living on a space station a few hundred years from now enjoying a Raktajino by the Replicator and discussing the United States at the turn of the 21st century. Would we be discussing a
golden age or a dark period? Let's apply some of our historical thinking skills to this era and see if we can determine what effects changes in this period had on American national identity. First, let's talk about
America's role in the world. In 1980, the United
States was still locked in a Cold War with the Soviet Union, and when Ronald Reagan
took over as president he moved the country away
from the policy of Detente, or relaxation of tension, kind of live and let live with the soviets that was pursued in the 1970s towards a more active,
anticommunist stance. The end of the decade saw the
collapse of the Soviet Union. So after more then 40
years of foreign policy that was aimed at containing communism and the influence of the Soviet Union, capitalism and democracy were now the dominant economic
and political systems, and the United States was
the world's lone superpower. After the Cold War ended it wasn't immediately clear what the new US role
in the world should be. Should it return to an isolationist stance like it had before World War II. Should it serve as the
world's police officer keeping the peace and
countering the actions of hostile powers that might try to arise. During the 1990s, the United States had a few limited engagements abroad and the Gulf War, the United
States defended Kuwait from an Iraqi invasion, and it sent troops to Kosovo as part of a NATO peacekeeping force. But the terrorist attacks
of September 11th, 2001 on the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. began a new era of
American foreign policy. US President George W. Bush articulated what's been called the Bush Doctrine which asserted that the United States has the right to secure
itself against countries that harbor or give aid
to terrorist groups. So under this doctrine, the United States went to war with Afghanistan
in 2001 and Iraq in 2003 after those countries refused to surrender Osama bin Laden and the
terrorists responsible for September 11th. The war in Afghanistan
became the longest war in US history continuing through 2019. At the end of this era from 1980 to 2020, Americans were continuing to debate the proper US role in the world. Should the United States
withdraw from wars abroad to save the lives of American troops and the massive budget
expenditures of war? Or would leaving the Middle East further destabilize the region and lead to even bigger
problems in the future? Some questions that we might think about in the broader scope of US history, how does the Bush doctrine compare to earlier presidential
doctrines on foreign policy like the Nixon Doctrine,
the Truman Doctrine, or even the Monroe Doctrine? And how does the war in Afghanistan compare to the United
States' second longest war, the war in Vietnam. The end of the Cold War and the rise of the war on terror weren't the only major
changes in this time period. There were also
far-reaching social changes. How work was done, how much people were paid for it, and who did that work. In the late 20th century, the emergence of the personal
computer and the internet made it possible to communicate and to do business all over
the world in an instant. At the same time, barriers to
trade fell between countries. In 1994, the United States signed the North American Free
Trade Agreement or NAFTA to reduce or eliminate
tariffs on trade goods between the United
States, Mexico and Canada. The growing international
interdependence of business and the mixing of cultures that business carries along with it
is called globalization. But the availability of
cheap goods and cheap labor that globalization made possible also had some economic
consequences for American workers. Manufacturing generally moved overseas to take advantage of lower
wages and regulations and union membership fell to a record low. Meanwhile, the share of Americans working in service-oriented jobs rose. The largest employer in the United States in 2019 was Walmart. Wages have stagnated for low and middle class American workers while wages have soared
for the richest Americans. A study by the federal reserve found that although the total net
worth of US households more than quadrupled
between 1989 and 2018, most of those gains were for the wealthy, with the top 10% of households controlling 64% of overall wealth. The top 1% alone controlled 32%. Another social change of the late 20th and early 21st century was
the growth of immigration. The 1965 immigration act ended national quotas in immigration which had barred immigration
for most countries other than Western Europe. As a result, immigration
from Latin America, Asia and Africa grew changing the racial demographics
of the United States. Some of the biggest questions
of American politics at the end of this era concerned the effects of
globalization and immigration. Putting this in a broader
historical context we might ask how did the developments in this time period compare with say the Second Industrial
Revolution in the Gilded Age when new manufacturing
technology opened up many new factory jobs, and lured many immigrants
to American cities, but also bred great inequality of wealth. Politics in this period
also differed sharply from the era that came before it. From 1932 to 1980, liberal ideas had
dominated American politics that government should be active in securing the welfare of people, and that taxation should
pay for those initiatives. But there was a growing
conservative movement starting in the 1960s and Ronald Reagan's election in 1980 began a period of limiting
government regulation and lowering taxes. And when democrat Bill
Clinton took office in 1993, he largely adopted that same stance. He declared that the era
of big government is over and reduced welfare
benefits significantly. The 1990s saw the emergence
of the culture wars. Battles over the growing multiculturalism, secularism, and cultural acceptance of non-traditional marriage
and family relationships. Many conservative Christians feared that the traditional American nuclear family with Christian,
heterosexual married parents was disappearing. Meanwhile, liberal progressive celebrated the growing acceptance of LGBTQ citizens in diversity and public life. This was also a time of
bitter partisan divisions with citizens not only more strongly identifying with one party but increasingly vilifying
members of the other party is immoral or unpatriotic. To put this in a broader
historical context we might ask, do these partisan divisions suggest that American national identity was fractured beyond repair or that a party realignment was underway? How does this period
compare with the 1850s when the beliefs of the
north and south diverged sharply over the institution of slavery? These are very difficult question and I'm glad we're here
in the 23rd century enjoying the benefits of hindsight to assess that strange
period from 1980 to 2020.