- [Voiceover] If we look
at the molecule on the left and try to use our cis-trans terminology, we quickly realize that we can't use it. To use cis or trans, we would need to have two identical groups to compare. And here we have four different groups attached to our double bond, so we need to use a different system to find the configuration
of our double bond. We're going to use the E-Z system. So to use the E-Z system, you need to think about atomic number to assign priority to the groups attached to your double bond. So let's start with the
carbon on the right side of our double bond. We look at the atoms directly
bonded to that carbon. There's a hydrogen directly
bonded to that carbon, and there's an oxygen directly
bonded to that carbon. Next, you need to compare those atoms in terms of atomic number. Hydrogen has an atomic number of one, and oxygen has an atomic number of eight. The higher the atomic number,
the higher the priority, so the group that contains oxygen is the higher priority group. So this is the higher priority group, and the hydrogen would be number two here. Now let's look at the left
side of our double bond, so let's look at this carbon,
and we look at the atoms directly bonded to that carbon. There's a bromine directly
bonded to that carbon, and there's a carbon. We go over here, and we see that carbon has atomic number of six, and bromine has an atomic number of 35. The higher the atomic number,
the higher the priority, so the bromine gets higher priority, so the bromine would get a number one, and we give a number
two to the methyl group. Next, I like to draw a line to think about sides of our double bond. If our two higher priority groups are on opposite sides of our double bond, that is the E configuration,
and the E comes from the German word for opposite. So if the two higher priority groups are on opposite sides of the double bond, it's the E configuration. Let's look at the example on the right. So it's very similar. If we start on the right
side of the double bond, this carbon is still
bonded to an H and an OH, and the OH group gets a higher priority because the oxygen has
the higher atomic number, so this gets a one, and
the hydrogen gets a two. So that's the same as
the previous example. When we go to the left
side of the double bond and we look at this carbon, now I've switched the methyl
group and the bromine. We know the bromine gets higher priority because the bromine has
the higher atomic number, and so the methyl group gets a number two. So when I draw a line
here, it's easier to see that the two higher priority
groups are on the same sides. The OH and the bromine
are on the same side of our double bond. This is the Z configuration. Z comes from the German
word meaning together, so the two higher priority
groups are together. They're on the same side. A good way to remember
this is to think about the two higher priority groups being on ze zame zide, and that's one way to remember that the two higher priority groups being on the same side is Z. So the E-Z system is more inclusive than the cis-trans terminology, so E-Z is often a better way to come up with the configuration of a double bond. Let's assign a configuration
to this double bond, and let's start with the
carbon on the left side. We look at the atoms directly
bonded to that carbon. There's a bromine, and there's a chlorine. Since bromine has the
higher atomic number, bromine gets the higher priority, so bromine gets a one,
and chlorine gets a two. If we go to the right
side of our double bond and we look at the atoms
directly bonded to this carbon, we know that here's a carbon, and we know that here's a carbon, so we have a tie because obviously carbon has the same atomic number. So to break a tie, we need to keep going. So what I'm going to do
is re-draw this molecule, and I'm going to do that
over here on the right. So we have a carbon bonded
to a bromine and a chlorine, and the carbon on the right
is bonded to another carbon. And this carbon, let
me change colors here, this carbon is this one, which is double bonded to an oxygen. So for the purpose of assigning priority, we're going to pretend like this carbon is bonded to two oxygens. Obviously, it has a double
bond to only one oxygen, but this will help us to assign priority. And then we also have this
carbon bonded to a hydrogen. What about this carbon down here? Well, this carbon is
bonded to two hydrogens and directly bonded to an oxygen, and the oxygen is bonded to a hydrogen. So let's go back to
thinking about priority. We started with the
carbon on the right side, and we got to these two
carbons, and then we had a tie. So, next, we need to
think about what atoms are directly bonded to those carbons. So we'll start with this carbon up here. This carbon is directly bonded to an oxygen, an oxygen, and a hydrogen, so we write down oxygen, oxygen, hydrogen. Down here, this carbon is directly bonded to an oxygen and two hydrogens, so oxygen, hydrogen, hydrogen. To assign priority, we look for the first point of difference. So we start with the two
oxygens, and we have a tie, so we go to the next atom, and we have an oxygen versus a hydrogen. Obviously, oxygen has
a higher atomic number than hydrogen, so this is our tiebreaker. Right here is our first
point of difference, and so this group gets higher priority, so this group gets a
number one for priority, and this group gets a number two. Next, we draw a line
here for our double bond, and we look at our two
higher priority groups. Our two higher priority
groups are on the same side, so ze zame zide. This is the Z configuration
for our double bond. So how do we incorporate the E-Z system into IUPAC nomenclature? Well, let's say our goal
is to name this alkene. Well, we'd find the longest carbon chain that includes our double
bond, and we'd give our lowest number possible
to our substituents, so that means starting
from the right side here. So this would be carbon one,
carbon two, carbon three, four, five, six, and seven. So what do we call a seven carbon alkene? That would be heptene. So over here I will write heptene. And our double bond
starts at carbon three, so let me write 3-heptene. Next, we think about the substituents coming off of our carbon chain. We have a methyl group
coming off of carbon two and an ethyl group coming
off of carbon four. Now we need to put those
in alphabetical order. So 4-ethyl would come first, so let me go ahead and
put that right here, so 4-ethyl, and then we have 2-methyl 3-heptene. So that's the older way of naming it. You could've also have
written here 4-ethyl 2-methyl hept-3-ene, so either one is accepted. Now we have to think
about our double bonds. Is it an E configuration
or is it a Z configuration? So let's start with the carbon on the right side of our double bond here. We know there's a hydrogen
coming up this way, and so we are comparing
the atoms directly bonded to that carbon in red. So we have a hydrogen here, and then we have a carbon right here. Carbon has the higher atomic number, so this group gets higher priority, so we get a number one for this group, and hydrogen would get a number two. For the left side, so we're
thinking about this carbon, we think about the atoms
directly bonded to that carbon. Well, there's a carbon
here and a carbon here, so there's a tie, so I'm
actually going to re-draw part of the molecule here
to help us figure out the higher priority group
to help us break that tie. So here's our double bond. Here's our hydrogen. Here's our carbon. That's the right side of our double bond. Again, only drawing in
part of the molecule. On the left side of our double bond, we would have a carbon down here bonded to two hydrogens, and then this carbon has three hydrogens, so that's our ethyl group. And then up here, we would have a carbon bonded to two hydrogens
bonded to another carbon with two hydrogens, and finally bonded to a carbon with three hydrogens. Now we have to figure out
which of those two groups on the left side is the
higher priority group. So, again, let's start with the carbon on the left side of our double bond. We look directly at the
atom bonded to that, and it's a carbon, so
we need to continue on. So this carbon is directly
bonded to a carbon and then a hydrogen and then a hydrogen, so we have carbon, hydrogen, hydrogen. What about this carbon? That carbon's bonded to a
carbon and two hydrogens, so we have carbon, hydrogen, hydrogen. We look for first point of difference. We have carbon versus carbon,
hydrogen versus hydrogen, and hydrogen versus hydrogen,
so we don't have anything. We still don't know which is
the higher priority group, so we need yet another tiebreaker. So let's go to our next carbon. So that's this carbon right here versus this carbon down here. We'll go back up to this top carbon. This carbon is bonded to a carbon and then hydrogen, hydrogen, so we have carbon, hydrogen, hydrogen. Down here, let's look at this carbon. We have hydrogen, hydrogen, hydrogen, so hydrogen, hydrogen, hydrogen. Finally, we have our
first point of difference because we're comparing
a carbon to a hydrogen, so carbon has the higher atomic number, so this group gets higher priority. So this group gets the higher priority. Let's go back up to this drawing. We're talking about this
group, higher priority, and our ethyl group
gets a number two here. So, finally, we go ahead
and draw in our line, so we can see which side
our higher priority groups or which sides, I should say, our higher priority groups are on. So our higher priority
groups are on opposite sides of our double bond, so we know that is E. So the configuration of
the double bond is E, so we put that in our names. We put our E here, and
we put it in parentheses. So the final name for our compound is (E)-4-ethyl-2-methyl-3-heptene, or you could say
(E)-4-ethyl-2-methylhept-3-ene.