(mellow piano music) - [Dr. Steven Zucker] Mesa
Verde is one of the most spectacular archeological
sites in the world. - [Dr. Lauren Kilroy-Ewbank]
It's the largest archeological site in the United States. There are more than
4300 sites and more than 600 cliff dwellings. - [Steven] Which draws
upwards to half a million visitors every year. The topography is spectacular,
flat-topped mesa's with deep, steep ravines
and human settlements were built both on top
of the mesas but also along the cliffs. We think this site was
inhabited for centuries but ultimately it was abandoned. - [Lauren] The Ancestral
Puebloans who have lived at Mesa Verde are the
ancestors of the Pueblo peoples that you find in the
American South West today. - [Steven] And there are
certain continuities. Modern Puebloans are well
knows for their ceramics, for their basket weaving,
and these are traditions that we can trace back to
these more ancient people. - [Lauren] People who
were living in Mesa Verde and in other parts of
the four corners region, they were trading
extensively with peoples, not just within the
American South West region, but you find evidence
for trade south into what is today, Mexico, what we
called back then, Meso America. - [Steven] This is so
interesting because we think of the border between the
United States and Mexico as a hard line and we often
differentiate peoples from Meso America from Native North
American peoples but that border is political and modern
and was not in existence. These Ancestral Puebloans
built these extraordinary structures, full scale cities. - [Lauren] If we're talking
about the cliff dwellings, they're set into the face
of the cliff and they are built using stone but
also mud and various other organic materials, but what
this means is that people have to constantly maintain
these types of structures. - [Steven] Because although
they're set within the cliff face, they are still exposed. Archeologists believe
that by the year 1300, most of these sites were
abandoned and there were various competing theories
as to why this took place. - [Lauren] Maybe there were
problems with the weather that was forcing them to move,
maybe it was water access, we're not entirely sure
what caused people to abandon Mesa Verde. What we do know is that
largely after 1300, most of these cliff dwellings
are no longer in use meaning that they are
not being maintained. - [Steven] Fast forward
to the modern world and to modern tourism and you have
stressors on these structures that are not only the result
of lack of maintenance but now also heavy foot
and vehicle traffic. - [Lauren] Stabilization
issues are some of the main problems facing the
conservation and preservation of places like Cliff Palace. Many of these cliff dwellings
don't have permanent foundations because they're
set into the face of the cliff and so with the heavy foot
traffic, with extreme weather, particularly heat, that
is affecting the site, as well as things like
pollution, you have structures that are cracking or falling apart. Cliff Palace, in 2011,
one of the kivas collapsed and as of 2015, because
of dangerous rock falls, Spruce Tree House is no
longer open to the public. - [Steven] But tourism is
only one part of the stress that Mesa Verde is facing. Forest fires have also posed
a major environmental threat. - [Lauren] Fires in the
late 90s and the early 2000s destroyed almost half of the park. Even though they were
responsible for destroying various local flora and
fauna, the fires did help to uncover a very large
number of unknown sites. So the site is facing a lot of stressors. The rediscovery of Mesa
Verde occurred in the late 19th Century when cattle
ranchers discovered Mesa Verde in the winter. Now we know that they were
not the first people here since is was abandoned. - [Steven] And, of course,
Native American peoples in the area knew about these structures. - [Lauren] But what happened
with these cattle ranchers is they kicked off this
desire for people who were interested in the past of
this area and the so called exploration and excavation of Mesa Verde. - [Steven] One could
call that exploration a type of looting. - [Lauren] People were
stealing things, they were camping out in some of the dwellings. There was basically nothing in
place to protect Mesa Verde. We know, for instance,
in the late 19th Century there was someone who took
artifacts and human remains back to Sweden and this
brings us back to the problems with some of the excavations
or the looting that took place from the late 19th
Century into the 20th Century. There were people who
stepped in to try to conserve and to prevent further
damage and one of the most important individuals for
this was Jesse Walter Fewkes of the Smithsonian who
had done excavations in the American South West and
he was writing about the need to have some type of rules
or legislature in place that would help to stop
the destruction of places like Mesa Verde. - [Steven] But even as
the dwellings themselves were being secured,
archeological excavations were continuing that were
unearthing human remains that we now realize should
have remained in place. In 1990 a law was passed that
goes by the acronym NAGPRA. - [Lauren] NAGPRA stands for the Native American Graves
Protection and Repatriation Act. - [Steven] And what that did
is to give legal standing to the idea that museums and
other cultural institutions that held Native American
human remains should return those to communities
that had some connection to those original peoples. - [Lauren] There was also sacred objects, maybe objects that were
not intended to ever be on display for a certain
peoples, ones that were intended to accompany
the dead into the grave and what NAGPRA did was
allow different groups, tribes, first nations
to receive these objects and human remains and
to properly rebury them. - [Steven] The human
remains were reburied in a private ceremony in 2006. - [Lauren] And also
grave goods that had been in collections were
reburied in the ceremony and it was over the
course of 12 years and in association with 24
different tribes that all of these human remains and goods
were collected to be reburied. - [Steven] So Mesa Verde
remains a tremendously popular tourist site but
it's also a lands through which we can understand
the difficulties of preserving a historical
site that remains central to the culture, the
history and the interests of contemporary native communities. (mellow piano music)