- [Instructor] We've
already done multiple videos on the crusades but what
we're going to focus on in this video is how the
crusades help catalyze the start of what many historians consider to be the first international
financial institution and that is the Knights Templar. So let's just make sure we have
a good hold on the context. So over here we have our timeline. It's occurring during
the high middle ages. In other videos we saw
the first crusades start at the end of the 11th
century, started really by Pope Urban the second
with the purported reason to help the Byzantines take land from the Muslims,
especially the Holy Land. The first crusade is for
the most part successful but they don't return that
land to the Byzantines. They set up what are
known as Crusader States or Crusader Kingdoms including
the Kingdom of Jerusalem and just to read this
timeline that I drew up here, green shows a time period when at least Jerusalem is controlled by the Muslims. Red shows when Jerusalem is controlled by Western European powers or by these Crusader Kingdoms which were
essentially Western European. These red parts on our timeline show when the actual crusades occurred. So you see the first crusade
causes the change of control of Jerusalem from the Muslims to the Western European Christians and once Jerusalem was under their control and it would continue to
be under their control for roughly 90 years, you could imagine that many pilgrims from
Europe went to the holy sites in the Holy Land especially in Jerusalem, but this was not an easy journey. Not only was it a long
journey, these are the paths that I showed in previous
videos that the crusaders took, but this could also be the paths that many of the pilgrims
took in order to go to the Holy Land and you
could imagine a journey of this distance going
through multiple kingdoms in this time period could
be incredibly dangerous and many of the pilgrims
actually were robbed or sometimes worse on
their way to the Holy Land. So in 1119 a small group of Knights led by Hughes de Payens, they go to King Baldwin the
second, King of Jerusalem. Remember they set up this crusader state, the Kingdom of Jerusalem headquartered on the temple mount and these
knights tell King Baldwin the second and Warmund,
or Patriarch Warmund the Patriarch of Jerusalem, they say we would like to protect these pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem. These guys think it is a good idea and so in 1120 they give them some space, a headquarters on the temple mount in order to start their group. If you translate the Latin
version of their name it translates to Poor
Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and the Temple of Solomon. Now the reason why it says
and the Temple of Solomon is because they were
headquartered on the temple mount and the Al-Aqsa Mosque is believed by many to be on the site of the
original Temple of Solomon, but this is often shortened
to the Knights Templar. This is their symbol, two
knights riding on a horse to show their poverty, but
they don't stay poor for long. They are shortly thereafter
recognized by the Pope and many people start
donating money to this order. Many more people volunteer
to be Knights Templar and so over the remainder of the crusades they become an important
institution in Medieval Europe. Now most folks often
associate the Knights Templar with being Knights. You can see here one of
the Knights on horseback. Here you see the Knights
protecting pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem
and they did do that. They did protect the pilgrims
and they were also active in battle during the crusades thereafter, but it turns out that even
though on the peak there were on the order of 20,000 Knights Templar, only about 10% of them
were actual soldiers, were actually these warrior monks as they're sometimes called. The rest of the Templars
created this fairly significant complex infrastructure
to do multiple things to support the goal of the Knights Templar and perhaps most
significantly they developed a sprawling financial
enterprise of the time. If you were in London and
you wanted to do a pilgrimage to the Holy Land you would need resources in order to do that and you
would want to have access to your wealth once you got to Jerusalem and so you could imagine
if you were traveling over a long journey to
take gold coins with you, not only would they be heavy but more importantly
it would be dangerous. A lot of people might want
to take that gold from you and so one of the services
that the Knights Templar developed was that you
could go to their temple in London essentially deposit your money, they'll give you a note
of credit saying that, we the Knights owe you a
certain amount of money, and then you make your journey and when you get to Jerusalem
you can give that note to the Knights there and they
will give you your money. Now this is something that
we take for granted today. I can go to an ATM machine
anywhere in the world and for the most part I
can put in my ATM card and get access to money, but there's a lot of infrastructure that makes that happen. Today we have telecommunications,
we have satellites that help information go back and forth, we have servers that keep
track of all of that data. They didn't have that in the middle ages and so you can imagine this
is a very powerful idea that I could deposit money one place and then I could withdraw
it someplace else and we still don't fully understand how the knights were
able to pull this off. It requires a lot of trust
and how were they able to authenticate the notes of
credit at any of these points? Not only did they do this type of deposit and withdrawal in multiple locations, they also because they
had all of these deposits and people were also
donating money to them just to support their cause, they were able to provide loans. Often times loans to very powerful individuals like kings and nobility. They were often brokers
in major transactions. This is the reason why
historians really do consider them perhaps the first
true international bank. In other videos we talk
about how in 1187 Saladin is able to retake Jerusalem
but then in the Sixth Crusade and the Barons' Crusades it
goes back to Christian hands but then 1244 it's retaken
again by the Muslims and it stays under Muslim
control all the way until the end of World War One and so with Jerusalem taken
in 1244 the whole goal of the Knights Templar, the whole purpose of their existence starts
to become less important. Although at this point
they are a significant and influential financial institution. As we go to the end of the 13th century the whole crusader mentality
starts to lose steam. You have the Eighth and Ninth Crusades but they aren't successful
and as we get into the early 14th century you have this
character Philip the Fourth, King of France and he has
incurred a lot of debt in order to have wars
especially with England and a good bit of this financing comes from the Knights Templar. He is a powerful man looking for solutions to his debt situation and
he realizes one solution is maybe just to arrest the people who you owe money to and then not only do you not owe any money to them, but you can seize their assets and Philip the fourth does exactly that. Famously on a Friday the 13th in 1307 he arrests many Knights Templars
including the Grand Master, the leader of the Knights
Templar, Jacques de Molay. He tortures them. They eventually confess
to a whole bunch of things but then they retract that confession and they're not willing
to retract the retraction and so in 1314 Jacques de Molay as well as other Knights Templar,
especially in the leadership, who do not agree to those
confessions are burned at the stake in Paris
and this is considered the end of the Knights Templar although there are many legends of how they have continued on perhaps in secrecy. So the Knights Templar are to this day are a subject of fascination. There's many legends associated with them, but one of their biggest
historical contributions that isn't often talked
about but we know happened, is that they really laid
the foundation for what we today consider modern
international banking.