Voiceover: So what makes
a cell that's located inside of your nose responsible for smelling, say, a slice
of pizza look and act differently from a cell
that lines your gut and is responsible for absorbing the nutrients from that pizza? They have the exact same DNA so the differences can't be
attributed to that fact alone. The answer actually lies in
the expression of that DNA, which genes are actively
transcribed and which ones aren't and there are several ways
in which gene regulation occurs at the level of
transcription and so we're going to be talking
about the main ones here. Now let's draw out a
hypothetical gene here and associated with this
gene is a sequence upstream so towards the three prime
region of the antisense strand, also called the template strand. And this sequence is called the promoter and there is another sequence in between the promoter and the
gene called the operator. The operator is the
sequence of DNA to which a transcription factor protein combined and the promoter is the
sequence of DNA to which the RNA polymerase binds
to start transcription. Now first off in
prokaryotes we have what are called general transcription factors, which are a class of proteins that bind to specific sites on DNA to
activate transcription. General transcription
factors plus RNA polymerase and another protein complex called the mediator multiple protein complex constitute the basic
transcriptional apparatus, which positions RNA
polymerase right at the start of a protein coding sequence or a gene and then releases the
polymerase to transcribe the messenger RNA from that DNA template. Now there's another type
of DNA binding protein called activators and these
enhance the interaction between RNA polymerase
and a particular promoter, encouraging the expression of the gene and activators can do this
by increasing the attraction of RNA polymerase for the
promoter through interactions with sub units of the RNA polymerase or indirectly by changing
the structure of the DNA. An example of an activator is the catabolite activator protein or CAP and this protein activates transcription of the lac operon in E. coli. In the case of the lac
operaon and E. coli, cyclic adenosine monophosphate or cAMP is produced during glucose starvation and so this cAMP actually binds to the catabolite activator protein or CAP which causes a confirmational change that allows the CAP protein
to bind to a DNA site located adjacent to the promoter
and then this activator, the CAP, then makes a
direct protein to protein interaction with RNA
polymerase that recruits the RNA polymerase to the promoter. Now enhancers are sites on the DNA that are bound to by activators
in order to loop the DNA in a certain way that
brings a specific promoter to the initiation complex
and as the name implies this enhances transcription of the genes in a particular gene cluster. And while enhancers are usually what are called cis-acting,
cis meaning the same or acting on the same chromosome, an enhancer doesn't necessarily need to be particularly close to
the gene that it acts on and sometimes it's not even located on the same chromosome. Enhancers don't act on the
promoter region itself, but are actually bound
by activator proteins and these activator
proteins can interact with that mediator complex I mentioned earlier which recruits RNA polymerase and the general transcription
factors which then can lead to transcription of the genes. So here I've drawn a
little schematic of what it might look like to have the enhancer actually change the structure of the DNA so that the DNA is now looping around. Here you still have
your promoter sequence, the operator sequence, the gene sequence, and the enhancer sequence,
and having the DNA looped in such a way
so that you could then recruit RNA polymerase,
the transcription factors, the mediator protein
complex, and then you have transcription begin of this gene here. Now let's talk about repressors. Repressors are proteins
that bind to the operator, impending RNA polymerase
progress on the strand and thus impeding the
expression of the gene. Now if an inducer, which is a molecule that initiates gene
expression, is present, then it can actually interact
with the repressor protein in such a way that causes it
to detach from the operator and then this frees up
RNA polymerase to then transcribe the gene further
down on the DNA strand. One example of a repressor protein is the repressor protein associated again with the lac operon
operator, which prevents the transcription of genes
used in lactose metabolism unless lactose, which
is the inducer molecule, is present as an
alternative energy source. Now silencers are regions
of DNA that are bound by repressor proteins in order
to silence gene expression and this mechanism is
very similar to that of the enhancer sequences
that I just talked about. And similarly, silencers
can be located several bases upstream or downstream from the actual promoter of the gene and when a repressor protein binds to the silencer region of the DNA, RNA polymerase is prevented from binding to the promoter region. Now a few notes about the differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes when it comes to
transcriptional regulation. In prokaryotes, the
regulation of transcription is really needed for
the cell to be able to quickly adapt to the ever-changing outer environment that it is sitting in. The presence, the quantity, the type of nutrients actually determines which genes are expressed
and in order to do that, genes must be regulated
in some sort of fashion so a combination of
activators, repressors, and rarely enhancers, at least in the case of prokaryotes, determines
whether a gene is transcribed. In eukaryotes, transcriptional regulation tends to involve a
combination of interactions between several transcription factors which allows for a more
sophisticated response to multiple conditions in the environment. And another major difference between eukaryotes and prokaryotes
is the fact that eukaryotes have a nuclear envelope which prevents the simultaneous transcription and translation of a particular gene and this adds an extra spacial and temporal control of gene expression.