OK, so we've got
Spout's motor here. We're going to go
inside of Spout's motor and take a look at what's
inside it and how it works. But first, let's take
a look at the outside. So we've got a piece
of stamped steel. This is cold rolled steel. It's coated, or plated, in zinc
to protect it from rusting. Then we've got a plastic
outer housing on this side. And it has two copper contacts. The power goes in through
one of the contacts and out through the
other one, depending on the way the power's
flowing through this circuit. And then we've got a axle here. And this is made out of
steel, and it's chrome plated. On the end here, there
is a brass bearing that allows the motor
to spin at a good speed. So let's see if we
can loosen this. There's a couple clips here on
the sides you can peel back. Bent this one back
a little already. There we go. So on the inside,
the two tabs connect to these two pieces
of metal here. And those are called brushes. These are copper brushes. And they brush up against
and conduct electricity down to this guy, which
is called the commutator. The commutator commutes
the power from the brushes to the field windings,
these guys right here. And inside of the
field windings-- you can see these are solid
core field-- there's a soft iron core. And the soft iron core makes the
magnetic field more powerful. So it's more effective than
if you just had an air core. And these things work just like
your nail with the copper coil wound around it. They create an
electromagnetic field. And so the power comes in,
flows through the coil, is energized, and
creates an electromagnet, which pushes against the magnet
inside of the housing here. So there's a north pole
and a south pole magnet. And so the power comes in,
pushes against this magnet, rotates, and as it
rotates, the field flips and pushes against
the south pole magnet. And then as it rotates
again, the field flips again, and it pushes against
the north pole magnet. And that's why you
get the rotation. And the reason why
that flipping occurs is because of something
called the right hand rule. The power is traveling
in one direction, and so the field is moving. You take your thumb,
and that's the direction of the electricity flow. And then the fingers in
the direction of the field. So when the power's
going in, the field's moving in one direction. When the power coming
out, the field's moving in another direction. So that's why you need a
north pole and a south pole to keep the motor rotating. So in any case, that's basically
how the motor inside of Spout works. And in order to reverse
the motor direction, all you have to do is change
the positive and negative on these little
connections here. So you take the positive
side from the battery and connect it here,
and the negative and connect it
here, or switch it. And that's going to
make the motor back up. And we'll see that in the
details on the Spout videos.