(clinking)
(clicking) - The area I'm posing in
is our drawing classroom. We call it Big Art because
it is a really big space. This is where artists
practice drawing models in different poses. The artists want to draw not
only the shape of the character but the emotions they are expressing. Typically, the pose is
only held for a minute, so you have to draw quickly and loosely. We call this style of
drawing gesture drawing and it's a great way to capture
the idea behind a drawing without worrying about
capturing all the little details within the drawing. Speaking of posing, I hope you enjoyed how expressive your lamp could
be with just a few controls. Now, we're going to add
action to the emotion and make a lamp jump. Think about what you do when
you jump from standing still. First, you bend and squash down. Then you jump, stretching out. These are two different poses
we're gonna need for our lamp: Squash and stretch. So we need to add controls to the lamp so it can move to a new location. We can do this by adding rotation and translation deformers
to the base of the lamp. One thing we need to be aware
of when we add deformers, is that some deformers need
to operate in a certain order. This might be a little hard to
picture, so let me show you. If we rotate before we translate,
we get a different effect than if translate and then rotate. Notice that we can arrange
the order of these deformers by clicking and dragging like this. And the order in which the
operate flows in this direction. The animators who use this
are moving to a position, and then posing of rotate, moving to another position
and posing of rotate again, and so on. So they should be able
to rotate about the base no matter where they translate it. But if our deformers are
played in the wrong order, translate then rotate, we
will run into a problem. The rotation of the lamp will move away from the pose like this. That's because we moved the lamp away from the axis of rotation, which is the initial position of the base. We solve this problem by
having our deformers upright in the opposite order. First, we rotate about
the origin of the base and then we move the base. This dependence of ordering
is called non-communitativty (snare drum) Well, you can learn more about this in the set and staging lesson. (dinging)
(giggling) In this next exercise, our goal is to move our lamp into place and then pose and move rotations. So you will need to pay
attention to the ordering of your translation and
rotational deformers. Have fun! (laughs)