- [Instructor] In this
video, I wanna give you a very brief overview of the history of citizenship for indigenous people
in the United States. The story of indigenous
people in North America and their citizenship
status in the United States is long and complex and
it's changing even today. The Supreme court recently
ruled in July, 2020 that indigenous people in
the Eastern half of Oklahoma must be tried in federal or tribal courts, not state courts because the land belongs to the Muskogee Creek Nation. So I wanna be clear
that what we're covering in this video is just
the most basic outline of how citizenship for indigenous people has changed over time. There is so much more
to learn on this topic if you're interested. Okay with that said, let's go back to 1789 when the constitution
gave the first definition of who was and was not a US citizen. Article 1 of the constitution mentions indigenous people twice; once to say that Congress
shall have the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States
and with the Indian tribes. And once to say that the
population of each state as counted for the
purposes of representation would exclude Indians not taxed. That indigenous people were categorized with foreign nations for the purposes of regulating trade and not
counted in state populations shows us that they were
not considered US citizens at that time. Remember that at this time, US citizenship was generally reserved for white men, women and children and
voting rights were reserved for white men with property. The next major change
in citizenship rights was the ratification
of the 14th amendment, which guaranteed
citizenship to all persons born or naturalized in the United States. This ensured citizenship
rights for African-Americans and the children of Asian immigrants. But at the time the courts
did not interpret it to include indigenous people. Only about 8% of all indigenous people, those who were not living
among a distinct nation, but instead within white
settlements were taxed and therefore eligible to become citizens. Now I should mention that
not all indigenous people wanted US citizenship, many
preferred to live separately from the United States as
part of their own nations. But as the US government
and white settlers colonized North America rapidly in the mid to late 19th century, they ignored the rights
of indigenous people as members of separate nations, forcibly relocating them to reservations or even killing them in
order to obtain their land. In 1887, Congress passed the Dawes Act, which attempted to force indigenous people to give up their culture and common lands and
live like Euro-Americans on individual tracks of land, any indigenous person who
received a land allotment would receive US citizenship. It didn't grant birthright citizenship to indigenous people or
citizenship to anyone who didn't accept a land allotment. not until 1924 in recognition
of indigenous soldiers in World War I, did
Congress confer citizenship on all indigenous people and guarantee birthright citizenship to them with the passage of the Snyder Act, which is also called the
Indian Citizenship Act. But did having citizenship
automatically confer the right to vote? If you've been paying
attention in these videos, you will know that the answer is no. Many States denied voting
rights to indigenous people. They faced many of the same
barriers to accessing the ballot as African-Americans did before
the civil rights movement. Following World War II
indigenous people sued for the right to vote in
States that denied them. Utah was the last state to
remove formal barriers in 1962. The Voting Rights Act of
1965 provided additional protections for indigenous voters by outlying exclusionary practices that deny or bridge the
right of any citizen of the United States to vote on account of race or color. So that's a very brief overview
of indigenous citizenship rights and voting rights. In what ways were the
citizenship rights of indigenous peoples similar to other
minorities like African-Americans and in what ways were they different? Why do you think indigenous
people may have wanted US citizenship or not wanted US citizenship?