It's possible to have
ethers in a ring system. And there are many different
types of ring systems that you can have
with ethers in them. The one that's studied
most of the time would be the epoxides,
due to their reactivity. Here we have the
simplest epoxide. And one name for this
would be ethylene oxide because this molecule
is made from ethylene and that's where you get your
two carbons from, like that. So you could call
this ethylene oxide, or you could give
this an IUPAC name. And since there are two carbons
in it, for the IUPAC name we start with ethane
as our parent name. And we know that
the epoxide forms between carbons one and two. So we can go ahead and write
1,2-epoxyethane for the IUPAC name. Let's do another one here. So let's put some
more carbons on here, so we'll put a
few extra carbons, and we'll name this
using IUPAC nomenclature. So once again, find your
longest carbon chain, right? So, we can go ahead and
find how many carbons are along this carbon chain. That would be one, two,
three, and four, like that. So we can go ahead and write
butane for our parent name. So we go ahead and
put butane in here. I want to next number
my carbon chain to get the lowest number
possible to the substituents. So in this case, it makes more
sense to number from the left. So I get one, two,
three, and four, to give my substituents
the lowest number possible. I can see now that my epoxide
side forms between carbons two and three. So I'm going to write
2,3-epoxybutane like that. And I know that I also have
a methyl group coming off of carbon two. So to complete the
name all I have to do is write 2-methyl
on the front here. So now I have
2-methyl-2,3-epoxybutane for my IUPAC name. So how do we make epoxides? We've already seen
one way to do it. And in an earlier video,
we started with our alkene, and to the alkene, we
added a peroxy acid. And a peroxy acid looks a
lot like a carboxylic acid, except it has an extra
oxygen in there like that. And in the mechanism for
the epoxidation of alkenes we saw was a concerted
mechanism, where one of those oxygens was
added in here to form our epoxide like that. So check out the earlier
video to see the mechanism for epoxidation of alkenes. So in this video, we're
going to cover another way to make epoxides, and
that is using halohydrins. So to make a halohydrin, you
also start out with an alkene. And we also saw this
mechanism in an earlier video, when you add a
halogen and water. And we're going to
add bromine and water. And we end up adding
the OH and one bromine across our double bonds. So we ended up getting
an anti-addition of an OH and a bromine. OK, so they're going to
add on opposite sides from each other like that. OK, so this molecule
is called a halohydrin. And again, check out an
earlier video for the mechanism to form a halohydrin. Once you form a halohydrin,
you can use that halohydrin to form an epoxide. So let's go ahead and
take that halohydrin, and let's see the
mechanism of how we can form an
epoxide from that. So I'm going to redraw
that halohydrin. So I'm going to go
ahead and put in the OH here like that, put my
lone pairs of electrons. And then I have my
bromine over here, and I'll go ahead and put in
my lone pairs of electrons on bromine as well. And for right now,
we can say anything could be attached
to this, and we'll go into stereochemistry
in the next video. So what we need to
do is add a base. So something like sodium
hydroxide will work. So we're going to add in sodium
hydroxide, Na plus OH minus. OK, so the hydroxide anion is
going to function as a base. All right, so a lone pair
of electrons on the oxygen are going to take this
proton on our alcohol. And these electrons
in here are going to kick off onto our oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw
the result of that acid base reaction. All right, so what
do we make from that? Well, now we have our
oxygen with three lone pairs of electrons around
it like that, which gives the oxygen a
negative 1 formal charge. And we still have our
bromine here, like that. And then we still have
these other groups attached to our carbon. So in the next step, we
need to think about, again, the polarization in the bond
between carbon and our halogen, right? Our halogen is more
electronegative, so the halogen is going to take
a little bit of this electron density in the bond
between carbon and bromine and therefore give the bromine
a partial negative charge. Right, this carbon's
going to lose a little bit of
electron density. So this carbon is actually
partially positive. And so the alkoxide that we
formed when the alcohol was deprotonated has
a negative charge. It's going to function
as a nucleophile. The partially positive
carbon wants electrons. It's going to function
as an electrophile. And we're going to get
a nucleophilic attack by our alkoxide anion on our
partially positive carbon. So this is actually an
intramolecular Williamson ether synthesis. So if you think about it, right,
if these electrons in here are going to attack
this carbon, that would kick these electrons off
onto your bromine like that. And it's an intramolecular
Williamson either synthesis, where your alkoxide is the
nucleophile in an SN2-type mechanism. So if we go ahead
and draw the product, right now, this
oxygen was bonded to the carbon on the right. Now, it's also a bonded
to the carbon on the left, and the bromine left. That was our leaving group. And so we can see
that we're going to end up forming an
epoxide with this mechanism. So let's go ahead and
do a quick problem here. We're reforming an
epoxide from an alkene. And we'll start
with cyclohexane. So here is our
cyclohexane molecule. And we'll make an
epoxide two ways, right? So in the first way,
we'll add a peroxy acid, and there are several
that you can use. One of the most common ones
would be peroxyacetic acid. So peroxyacetic acid looks
very similar to acetic acid, except you have an extra
oxygen in there, like that. So it's epoxidation
of an alkene. And when we draw our product,
right, so let's go ahead and draw our product
to form an epoxide. And I'm going to go ahead and
draw the product with a wedge here. All right, so there's
an oxygen coming out relative to that plane. And if we go ahead and
name our product, right, so the parent name
would be cyclohexane, and our epoxide would form
between carbons one and two, so we could go ahead and name
this as 1,2-epoxycyclohexane, like that. Let's go ahead and
to cyclohexane, let's do another reaction. Let's start with
cyclohexane, and this time in the first step, we'll add
some bromine and some water, and that will form
our halohydrin. And in the second step,
we'll add sodium hydroxide to act as our base. And we get an intramolecular
Williamson ether synthesis, and so we're going to end
up with the same product, We're going to end up
with 1,2-epoxycyclohexane. Now for this reaction,
we don't have to worry about stereochemistry. OK, so if you think about the
oxygen adding from the other side of the ring, we don't have
to worry about stereochemistry for our products because if
the oxygen added from the other side of the ring, they would
actually be the exact same molecule, 1,2-epoxycyclohexane. So we'll save stereochemistry
for the next video, where we can focus in on what
happens when you're adding an oxygen to
different sides of a plane.