So in this video, we're going
to attach our tap light base and thread the wires from our
motors and from our batteries through the tap light base
so that we can connect them to the parts of our bot that
we need to connect them to. So we're going to thread
those wires through. Those are the motor wires. And it's important that
we line up those holes. You can see there's three
holes on the tap light. We want to make sure we line
those wires up with those holes and pull the wires
through there. So once we've got
those lined up, we can sort of bend
them out of the way. Make sure everything is right
in the center and everything is lined up the
way we want to be. So the tap light base
has double stick tape. So we'll peel that
double stick tape off. And once we have it lined
up the way we want it, we'll double check and
make sure that it's in the perfect location above
our motors and batteries. And then we'll press it down and
make sure that it's in place. So we want it right
in the center. If it's off the
center, then the wheels may rub up against the side
and could cause some problems for us. So it's really important
that tap light base is right in the center. And so we've got our motor
wires already run through, and now we're going to
connect our battery wires. So the battery
wires need to come in through the same hole
on the right side there. And we'll just connect our
nine volt battery connector. So one thing that's
important is, when you're connecting the
nine volt battery connector, you have to realize
that the power is then able to flow through the wires. And so, the two
ends of the wires, because they're
a similar length, may end up touching
one another, which means they could short
out and heat up a lot and cause problems for you. So you want to tape
off one end of the wire until you get it connected
so that they don't short out and cause your
battery to heat up or cause the wires to
heat up and basically ruin your battery. So make sure you tape off one
of those wires while you're connecting everything together. So we've got one side connected. And then we're just going
to do the other side. And again, we'll use our
nine volt battery connector. We're going to thread
it through the holes and connect it to our battery. Now the thing is, on the
battery on the front, we're going to connect
the wire-- we're going to run the wires from the
battery through the front hole instead of through
the side hole, because it'll be closer to
where we want it to end up on our motor controller. So that's how to thread
the wires through.