- [Speaker] How many different species or kinds of birds are there? Take a guess. 100, 1,000, more? Well, biologists have estimated that there are at least 10,000
different species of birds all around the world,
and some biologists think that there are even more, up
to 18,000 different species. Birds are incredibly diverse. Think about the differences
between an eagle, a parrot, a hummingbird, a duck, and a penguin. Some of them are small and some are big, and take a look at the differences in their beaks or bills
and their feathers. And not all of these
birds can fly, either. Penguins use their wings like
flippers to swim underwater. Collectively, these 10,000
plus different species of birds are a product of evolution, which is the change in heritable traits that occurs in a group of
organisms over many generations. But what are these
heritable traits exactly? Heritable traits are those that are passed from parents to offspring via genes, and they include things like the colorful patterns and plumage or the webbing or toes
and claws of bird feet. And even though offspring
inherit traits from their parents and look pretty similar to them, over many, many generations, these heritable traits can change. Evolution is made possible
by genetic variation or differences in genes
within a population. Genes are passed from parents to offspring and they affect how an organism
develops, how it functions, and even how it looks. Genes can come in
different forms or alleles, which can lead to different
versions of a trait. For example, in city pigeons,
also called rock doves, which you might see flying around, different alleles cause
different eye colors such as orange, black, and white. Genetic variation causes
organisms within a population to have a range of traits like differences in plumage or eye color. Genetic variation can come
from lots of different sources, one of which is through
sexual reproduction. This type of reproduction causes offspring to have different sets of
traits compared to their parents because they receive genetic material from both of their parents. In other words, the offspring aren't an exact genetic
copy of either parent. In this example of rock doves, parents carry different alleles
that affect their plumage, and, in turn, their offspring can inherit different sets of traits and may look quite different
from their parents. Now, let's take a look
at that dove example with the plumage differences and think about it at the population level with lots of doves. You could imagine that
those plumage traits can change over many, many generations of parents and offspring
in a large population. You might see new traits appear like different colors or
different patterns and feathers, or existing traits like dark colors may become more or less common. When this type of change occurs or any change in heritable traits, that group of organisms has evolved. Over many generations,
small differences in traits between generations can
add up, and over time, over thousands to millions of years, evolution can give rise
to new types of organisms. For example, over many generations, one population can evolve
into two different species, like the rock dove and the hill pigeon. Even though these two types of birds look pretty similar to one another, they are a distinct species that have been changing along
independent evolutionary paths for about a million years. Over the billions of years
that life has existed on Earth, evolution has given rise
to the amazing diversity of organisms on our planet. We have over 10,000 species
of birds alive today, and there are even more bird ancestors species that once existed. Ancestors that were literally dinosaurs, but, that's a topic for another video.