- [Instructor] All across ecosystems, we know that organisms
interact in specific ways and scientists use special words to describe these types of interaction, competition, predation and mutualism. So let's first talk about competition which we have already talked
about in other videos. In this picture here,
do you see competition? Pause this video and think about that. Well, one limited resource that these animals need
to survive is water. There's only a limited
amount in this watering hole over here and so you could
imagine there is competition not just amongst the
members of a population let's say between the zebra but also between members
of different species, between different
populations in a community. The zebras are not just competing
for water with each other but also with these antelope or with these buffalo over here. There might also be competition for food. It doesn't seem like there's
a lot of grass to eat for all of these animals
that like to graze on grass. So now let's move on to predation. Predation is when one
organism eats another organism usually to its own benefit. Do you see any predation happening here? Well, we don't see any of these animals chasing and killing each other. There might be other
animals like lions offscreen that might hunt and kill
and eat these animals right over here but we know that these
animals do eat grass and as I said, it's not just about hunting and killing and eating
from one animal to another. It could be one organism to another. So the eating of the
grass by these animals could actually be considered
a form of predation especially if it kills the grass. A more obvious form of predation
is this brown bear here that has gotten the
salmon out of this river. It is clearly hunting and killing
the salmon for its benefit and it is likely that each of these bears are in competition with other bears for this limited resource. So last but not least, let's think a little bit about mutualism. Mutualism happens when
two organisms benefit from interacting with each other. Right over here, we have these starlings that actually hang out on this buffalo and pick lice and ticks
off the buffalo's fur. This is mutualism because
both parties benefit. The starlings are able to get food and the buffalo no longer
have these parasites, these things that are
living off of the buffalo sucking its blood out of its body and also probably not itching as much. Now, based on how I just described it, there's not just mutualism here. There's also predation because these birds are actually hunting and killing the lice and the
ticks on the buffalo's body. Now, related to being a
predator is another word known as being a parasite and that's what the lice
and the ticks are doing where they're sucking
the blood of the buffalo but they're not considered predators. They're more parasites because
they don't kill the buffalo. They're just taking some
resources away from it. So I'll leave you there. I encourage you when you look at nature, when you go to a park next time, when you go watch a documentary, I encourage you to think
about how competition, predation and mutualism is
happening in an ecosystem that you are seeing or
that you're a part of.