(soft tapping) (clicks) - Movement is obviously
a big part of films. However, since storyboards
and concept paintings are still images, they
have to suggest movement to help tell a story. In this video we'll look
how to create the illusion of movement in still images. Focusing on two specific techniques, motion lines and line of action. Motion lines extend from
an object along its pathway of motion to make it
appear like it's moving. If I was drawing a car on a racetrack I might add some lines like this. The line of action is
a little bit different. Think of this as an
imaginary line that runs down the spine of a character which indicates the force
and movement in that moment. We use this line to
imply movement by guiding the pose of the character or
in some cases other objects. Check this out. Notice we can feel movement even though the drawing is static. Now let's look at the Up
storyboards and concept art with motion in mind. - The previous panel we've
been looking at from Up where we see the house
taking off for the first time through a city, there's a lot of things about this composition
that really help us feel like even though these are static shapes that typically in our world
wouldn't move on their own, suggest a sense of
movement with this house. That directional of
the balloons fanning up helps pull the house upwards. The shape of the house
itself with the triangle pointing upwards helps
move the house upwards. The framing devices that are
happening in the background actually help move the house
through the panel as well. As the trees go from medium to large size they pull our eye forward. - And then if you look at the house, it's not quite vertical,
it's slightly askew. Which shows that it's different than all the other surroundings. Because the fact that it's flying but also it's like a character in itself. So there's like a
slightly implied movement of going upwards and to the right. - One of the fun things we
are sort of experimenting with with Ellie is even though you see her here as she's drawn with hands
on hips firmly planted on the ground, we wanted
her energy to just feel like it was pointing upwards. So we used these curves which are sort of pointing you upwards. We wanted it to sort of
play a contrast to Carl. Who has become even more square
and even more hunkered down. We wanted you to feel like age has just taken its toll on him. He's become this sort of grumpy
old man who's now burdened and sort of locked in and
just anchored to the floor. - I really like the movement in this image because it's very simple. It's like a really easy thing to do but sometimes it gets overcomplicated. If you look at McQueen here
you see how these tires are slightly diagonal,
which makes him feel like he's leaning to the right. As well as like this bottom here. And then the overall line
of action is a diagonal line going that way. And then this car that's back here's line is going that way as well. And it just makes it feel
like they're actually moving forward in space. As well as the speed lines
which are always like a really quick an easy way to indicate movement in storyboarding. And if you look at this guy back here, he's a little bit slower
than these other two. He's not quite as competitive
in this moment as they are, he's more examining the
bout, like what's going on and admiring the competition between them. So if you check him
out, his line of action is more of a vertical line. Like even the tires are very straight, which really contrasts
what they're doing here. - So this set of images
from Brave are great. The character designer
was exploring how Mum Bear would move as soon as
she turns in the bear. And of course, she was
a woman who doesn't know how big she is now. She's this gigantic bear. And this is something really important when we create characters,
the line of action. This through line that goes
from the top of the bottom of the character to kind of
tells you what the gesture and implies the movement
the character might have. Mum Bear is not very graceful yet, she doesn't quite know
what to do with her body. She doesn't know how to move and she's a little bit off balance. Now a little bit later when
Mum Bear finds her footing, she becomes really graceful. You look at these pictures
and you can just see this beautiful line of
action through the body of Mum Bear. She seems like she moves
in a very graceful way. And I really love that kind
of simplicity of design that we see in these pictures. - As we've just seen,
we can create a sense of motion with motionless images. By thinking about the
direction and the quality of our lines, as well as
the pose of the character and the objects within the frame. In the next exercise you'll have a chance to explore motion in more depth.