- [Instructor] The folks
you see in this picture are two NASA astronauts who also happen to be identical twins. On the left here, this is Mark Kelly, you can see his name on
his patch right over there, and then this is Scott Kelly. And the reason why we want to look at these two astronauts in particular is to think about genotype and phenotype that we have been introduced
to in other videos. So just as a bit of a review, when people talk about genotype, they're talking about the
actual genetic information encoded in an organism's genes. So, if you go inside a
cell we have chromosomes and then on those
chromosomes, there are long, each chromosome's a long stretch of DNA. And then sections of
that long stretch of DNA will code for various things, often usually various proteins. But there's a difference
between what is actually, what information is in one's genes versus what actually gets expressed. The observable characteristics,
that is phenotype, and two people with the same genotype they might have a very similar phenotype but they won't necessarily
have an identical phenotype because above and beyond the
genes affecting phenotype, you also have the environment affecting someone's phenotype. So, as you can see here,
Mark and Scott Kelly, they're identical twins, they have the same genotype. But if you just look at
their facial characteristics you can see that you could tell the difference between the two, and it's not just the fact
that Mark has a mustache and that Scott doesn't, we
could draw in a mustache, we would still see that
they look different. And that's because their bodies
developed in different ways based off the environment
that they happen to be in. And this idea that the same genotype could result in variations of phenotype, this is known as phenotype plasticity. Phenotype. Phenotype plasticity. And maybe in one of the
most extreme experiments ever conducted on phenotype plasticity, NASA was intrigued to see, well, what would happen
to the gene expression if Scott Kelly spent an
extensive period of time in space while his twin brother didn't. So they looked at how
their bodies expressed certain characteristics before Scott spent an extended period of time in space. And then after he spent that time in space they studied his body and they saw that there was
differences in the mitochondria, differences in which genes were expressed. In fact, there was a 7%
difference in the gene expression after the extended time
in space for Scott. So that's the example of
that space environment changing Scott's phenotype. And the NASA scientists theorized that it was a low oxygen environment there was a lot of carbon
dioxide in that environment, there were stressors from space travel that would have affected how the genotype which is identical to his
brother, Mark's genotype, how it might have been expressed resulting in the phenotype plasticity above and beyond what
other changes in phenotype between Scott and Mark accumulated over the course of their lives despite having the same
genetic information.