DAVID CHRISTIAN: We've all
looked up at the stars at night and wondered about them. But, could you imagine
what it would feel like if you looked up at the stars
and you saw nothing? No stars at all? Well, that's what it was like
for about 200 million years after the Big Bang. As the Universe expanded, it got colder and colder and darker and darker and, frankly,
less and less like a place that might produce things
like you and me. Astronomers call this part
of the Universe's history the Dark Ages. During the Dark Ages, you had a lot of atoms flowing through space. You had... about 75 percent
of them were hydrogen, with one proton; about 25 percent,
most of the rest, were helium, with two protons,
and there was a tiny sprinkling of beryllium, of lithium-- lithium's got three,
beryllium's got four protons-- and, finally, boron. There was also stuff that astronomers
call dark matter, quite frankly, because they
don't understand what it is. But it doesn't seem to play much of a role in the story,
so we're going to ignore it. The whole Universe was really
very, very simple. We know this because of studies of the cosmic
background radiation that was released, you remember,
about 380,000 years after the Big Bang. What that shows is that matter
was distributed extremely evenly through the Universe. Everywhere you looked, you seemed to have
the same temperature, the same density,
the same types of atoms. Really, everything was uniform. And that's a real problem. Because it seems
as if the Universe was just too simple,
too uniform for anything interesting
to happen. How could you produce you and me
from such a Universe? Well, we actually know
how this happened, and the key players
in all of this are stars. So what we're going to do
in this unit is we're going to focus
on how the first stars appeared. We'll see throughout this course that more complex things
seem to appear when you have just the right
Goldilocks conditions for their appearance. Not too hot. Not too cold. Not too big. Not too small. Not too close together.
Not too far apart. You get the idea. So what were the perfect
Goldilocks conditions for creating
just a bit more complexity in the early Universe? Well, it turns out
that those conditions were scattered
all through the Universe. The crucial things
you needed were: first, lots of matter; secondly, gravity; and third, tiny differences
in the distribution of that matter. And they were all there. Recent studies of the cosmic
background radiation, using special satellites
such as the WMAP satellite, have shown that, in fact,
there were tiny differences in the temperature of the cosmic
background radiation. Some regions, for example,
were just a thousandth of a degree hotter
than other regions. Now, this was just enough
for gravity to get to work. And what gravity could do
was to magnify those differences and turn them into something
much more interesting. And so this is what happened: gravity began to get to work
on those differences, and eventually it created stars,
something entirely new. So let's see how this works. Gravity, you'll remember, is one of the four
fundamental forces, and it's the star
of this part of the story. As Newton showed, gravity is more powerful
where there is more stuff and when things
are closer together. To give an example, the gravitational pull
of the Earth is extremely powerful on you, but if you move away
out into space, it suddenly gets
much, much weaker. So now let's move back
to the early Universe and think how this force
might have worked. Remember, there are some areas
that are just slightly hotter and slightly denser than others. In those areas, gravity
was just slightly more powerful. So what it did was
it clumped those areas together. As they clumped together,
they got denser, so the power of gravity
increased and they began to clump
even further together. Gravity increases, so the whole thing is clumping
a bit like a runaway train. Now, this gets faster
and faster and faster. And now what happens is at the center of each
of those clouds of atoms, atoms begin to bang
into each other really violently, and they begin to heat up,
particularly at the center, where there are the most atoms. Now notice something. So far our story has been about
a Universe that's cooling down. Suddenly, we're talking about
an area of the Universe that's beginning to heat up
for the first time. Eventually, the temperature
reaches about 3,000 degrees. Now, that temperature
should sound familiar. It's the temperature
at which atoms can't hold together anymore, because protons
can't hold on to electrons. So what happens is you recreate the sort of plasma that existed
before the creation of the cosmic
background radiation. Now, the temperature
in the cloud keeps rising until eventually,
it reaches 10 million degrees. And something spectacular
happens at that temperature. Protons start banging
together so violently that they overcome the repulsion
of their positive charges, and they fuse together,
and are now held together by the "strong nuclear force." As that happens, there is a huge
release of energy as some of their matter
is turned into pure energy. This is very similar
to what happens in an H-bomb. So now, at the center
of the cloud, we have a sort of furnace that's pushing back
against the force of gravity and that stabilizes
the whole thing. And now what's happened is a star has lit up. And that star is going to shine for millions
or billions of years. We've now crossed
our second major threshold of complexity in this course. From about 200 million years
after the Big Bang, the Universe starts filling up
with stars-- billions and billions
and billions of them. And the Universe is now
a much more interesting place. Instead of the sort of
uniform mush that we saw before the appearance
of the first stars, we now have a Universe
that's filled with stars. It's not just that
it's more interesting to look at, stars are much more
important than that. Our Universe is filled
with these sort of glowing batteries
that emanate light and heat. It's a much more
interesting place. In fact, astronomers can see
stars still forming today; it's a process
that's still going on. They find them
in star nurseries. They're some of the most
beautiful places you can see in the heavens. And, in fact, it's worth going
onto the Hubble website or looking through a telescope
at some of these star nurseries because they are amongst
the most beautiful sights you can see in the sky. Stars increased the complexity
of the Universe in another way. They gave it
new types of structure at many different scales-- from the level
of the stars themselves to galaxies, to superclusters. So let me try and describe
these structures one by one. Let's begin with the stars. Stars themselves
have a very clear structure. At the center,
you've got protons that are at an extremely high
temperature, as we've seen, and they're fusing
to form helium nuclei. Just around the center,
around the core, you have a sort of
store of protons ready to be fused eventually
when they sink down into the center. Now, photons of energy
and light from the center slowly work their way
through the plasma, taking sometimes
thousands of years, until eventually
they reach the surface and then they
flash out into space. So stars have a lot
of structure, but stars themselves are gathered together by gravity
into a much larger structure. We call these galaxies. Our Milky Way is our galaxy. It contains perhaps 100 billion,
some say 200 billion, stars. It's absolutely huge. And there may be
100 billion galaxies in the entire Universe. But structures exist
at even larger scales too. Gravity gathers
galaxies together into what are called clusters. Our local group
is a cluster like that. It contains about 30 galaxies,
including Andromeda and the Magellanic Clouds, both of which you can see
with the naked eye. Gravity can even hold
clusters together to form what are called
superclusters. These scatter
through the Universe in huge webs and sort of chains. But beyond that,
gravity is too weak to hold superclusters together. And it's beyond the level
of superclusters that you begin to see finally
what Hubble saw. You begin to see
whole superclusters moving apart,
and there, at that scale, you can see the expansion
of the Universe. Now, let's summarize. We'll see throughout this course that complexity
builds on complexity. Now we've got stars, and stars
are going to be the key to later forms of complexity. Most of the Universe
was then, and still is, cold, dark, empty, and from our perspective,
very, very boring indeed. But with stars,
you have something like campfires in Antarctica: lights that light up
a cold Universe. And we'll see that from now on, the Goldilocks conditions
for further complexity are to be found, not throughout
the whole Universe, but in galaxies, and above all,
around the stars, those cold campfires. That's where our story
is going to go now.