- Plants! You're familiar with their work, they turn all that carbon
dioxide that we don't want into the oxygen that we do want. They're all around us, and they've been around for
a lot longer than animals. The plants that we see
today probably evolved from the single species of
algae that nudged itself onshore about 1.2 billion years ago, and from that one little piece of algae, all of the half-million
or so species of plants that we have today evolved. But of course, all of this
didn't happen overnight, it wasn't until about
475 million years ago that the first plants started to evolve and they were very simple, didn't have a lot of
different tissue types, and the descendants of those plants still live among us today,
they're the nonvascular plants, the liverworts, the hornworts, and everybody's best friend, the mosses. Mmm, fuzzy. Now, yeah, it's clear that these guys are less complicated than
an orchid or an oak tree and if you said that
they were less beautiful, you probably wouldn't get
that much argument from me. But by now, I think you've
learned enough about biology to know that when it comes
to the simplest things, sometimes they're the craziest of all. Because they evolved early
in the scheme of things, they were sort of able to
evolve their own set of rules, so much like we saw with archaea
and protists and bacteria, nonvascular plants have
some bizarre features and some kooky habits that
seem to us like kind of, just like what? Especially when it comes
to their sex lives. The main thing to know
about nonvascular plants is their reproductive cycle, which they inherited from algae, but perfected to the point where now it is used by all plants
in one way or another, and there are even traces of it in our own reproductive systems. (upbeat music) Usually, when we're talking about plants, we're really talking
about vascular plants, which have stuff like
roots and stems and leaves. Those roots and stems and
leaves are actually tissues that transport water and nutrients from one part of the plant to another. As a result, vascular plants are able to go all giant sequoia. The main defining trait
of nonvascular plants is that they don't have
specialized conductive tissues. Since they don't have roots and stems, they can't reach down into the soil to get water and nutrients. They have to take moisture in directly through their cell
walls and move it around from cell to cell through osmosis, while they rely on diffusion
to transport minerals. Another thing nonvascular
plants have in common is limited growth potential, largely because they don't have tissues to move the good stuff around, or woody tissue to support more mass. The way for them to win is
to keep it simple and small, so small that when you
look at one of these dudes, you sometimes might not
know what you're looking at. And finally, nonvascular plants
need water for reproduction. This is kind of a bummer for them, because it means that
they can't really survive in dry places like a lot
of vascular plants can, but I'll get back to that in a minute. Other than that,
nonvasculars are true plants. They're multicellular, they have cell walls made of cellulose, and they use photosynthesis
to make their food. All the nonvascular plants
are collectively referred to as bryophytes, and who knows
how many different sorts there used to be back in the olden days, but we can currently meet three phyla of bryophytes in person. The mosses in phylum Bryophyta, the liverworts in phylum Hepatophyta, and the hornworts in
phylum Anthocerophyta. Taken together, there
are over 24,000 species of bryophytes out there,
about 15,000 are mosses, 9000 are liverworts, and
only about 100 are hornworts. Hornworts and liverworts, funny names, but are named after the shape
of their leaf-like structures, horns for the hornworts and
livers for the liverworts, with wort stuck on the end
there, which just means herb. And you know what mosses look like, though some things that are called moss like Spanish moss in the
southern United States and Reindeer moss up in
the alpine tundra of Alaska are impostors! They're actually lichens, and
lichens aren't even plants. The very oldest fossils of plant fragments look really similar to liverworts, but nobody really knows
which of the bryophytes evolved first and which
descended from which. We just know that something
very bryophytic-looking was the first plant to rear its leafy head back in the Ordovician swamps. So now I've got these ultra
old-timey nonvascular plants to provide us with some clues
as to how plants evolve, and like I mentioned, the most important contribution
to the kingdom Plantae and everything that came after them is their wonderfully
complex reproductive cycle. See, plants, vascular and nonvascular, have a way more complicated
sexual life cycle than animals do. With animals, it's pretty
much a one-step process. Two haploid gametes, one from
the mom, one from the dad, come together to make a diploid cell that combined the genetic
material from both the parents. That diploid cell divides
and divides and divides and divides until voila, the world is one marmot
or grasshopper richer. Plants, on the other
hand, along with algae and a handful of
invertebrate animal species, have evolved a cycle in which they take on two different forms over
the course of their lives, one form giving rise to the other form. This type of reproductive cycle is called alternation of generations, and it evolved first in algae and many of them still use it today. However, the difference
between algae and plants here is that in algae, both generations look
pretty much the same, while in land plants, all land plants, the alternating generations
are fundamentally different from each other. And by fundamental, I mean that the two don't even share the same
basic reproductive strategy. One generation called the
gametophyte reproduces sexually by producing gametes, eggs and sperms, which you know are haploid cells that only carry one set of chromosomes, and the bryophyte sperm is
actually a lot like human sperm, except that they have two
flagella instead of one and they're kinda coily-shaped. When the sperm and the egg fuse, they give rise to the second generation called the sporophyte
generation, which is asexual. The sporophyte itself is diploid, so it already has two sets
of chromosomes in each cell, and it has a little
capsule called a sporangium which produces haploid
reproductive cells called spores. During its life, the
sporophyte remains attached to its parent gametophyte, which it relies on for
water and nutrients. Once its spores disperse and germinate, they in turn produce gametophytes, which turn around to produce
another sporophyte generation, and so on. Weird, I know, but that's the fun of it! Life is peculiar and that's
what makes it so great. This means that the nonvascular plants that we all recognize,
the green leafy, livery, or horny parts of the moss,
or liverwort, or hornwort are actually gametophytes. Sporophytes are only found
tucked inside the females and they're super-small and hard to see. So in the gametophyte generation, individuals are always
either male or female. The male makes sperm through mitosis in a feature called the antheridia, the male reproductive structure, while the female
gametophyte makes the egg, also through mitosis, inside the female reproductive structures which are called the archegonia. Now these two gametophytes
might be hanging out right next to each other, sperm and eggs totally ready to go, but they can't do anything
until water is introduced to the situation. So let's just add a sprinkle
of water and take a tour of the bryophyte sex cycle, shall we? By way of the water, the sperm
finds its way to the female and then into the egg, where the two gametes fuse
to create a diploid zygote, which divides by mitosis
and grows into a sporophyte. (creaking)
The sporophyte grows inside the mother until
one day, it cracks open and the sporophyte sends up (slide whistle rises)
a long stalk with a little cap on
top called the calyptra. This protective case is made
out of the remaining piece of the mother gametophyte, and under it a capsule
forms full of thousands of little diploid spores. When the capsule is
mature, the lid falls off and the spores are exposed to the air. If humidity levels are high enough, the capsule will let the
spores go to meet their fate. Now, if one lands on a
basketball court or something, it will just die if it doesn't get water, but if it lands on moist ground, it germinates, producing a little filament called the protonema,
that gives rise to buds, these eventually grow into a patch of moss which is just a colony
of haploid gametophytes. That generation will mate
and make sporophytes, and the generations will continue their alternation indefinitely. Now, because nonvascular plants are the least complex kind of plants, their alternation of generations process is about as simple as it gets, but with vascular plants, because they have all kinds
of specialized tissues, things get a little more convoluted. For instance, plants that
produce unprotected seeds like conifers or ginkgo
trees are gymnosperms, and it's at this level that
we start to see pollen, which is just a male gamete
that can float through the air. The pollen thing is taken to
the next level with angiosperms or flowering plants, which are the most diverse
group of land plants and the most recently evolved. So the main difference
between the alternation of generations in vascular
and nonvascular plants is that in bryophytes, you recognize the gametophyte
as being the, you know, the plant part, the moss or
the liverwort or whatever, while the sporophyte is less
recognizable and smaller. But as plants get more complicated, like with vascular plants, the sporophytes become the dominant phase, more prominent or recognizable, like the flower of an
angiosperm, for instance, is itself actually the sporophyte. Now I maybe just stuck
a spoon in all the stuff that you learned and stirred
it up to confuse you more, but we'll get into this more when we talk about the reproduction of vascular plants. But whether they have a big
showy sporophyte like a flower or a little damp gametophyte like a moss, all land plants came from the
same, tiny, little, ancient nonvascular plant who just
put their sperm out there hoping to find some lady gametophyte they could call their own, and I think that's kinda sweet.