Here's a flow sheet created
by Doctor Schwartz, who was my organic chems professor. And what's nice about
this flow sheet, is it shows you all
of the reactions-- or most of the reactions--
that you studied in the first semester
of organic chemistry. And it shows you how
all of those reactions are connected to each other. And this is very,
very helpful when you're trying to do
a synthesis problem. When you're trying to
synthesize one molecule from another molecule you have
to know the reactions that connect those different
functional groups together. And a flow sheet is one of
the best ways of doing it, to show you all of those
different connections here. And synthesis is what organic
chemistry is all about. How do you synthesize this
molecule from that molecule? How do you synthesize
a molecule that's important to humanity, that's
used in medicine to help to save lives or help to
make everyone's life better in society? So synthesis is really what
organic chemistry is all about. And it can be very
difficult, which is why you'll see a lot of
these problems on organic tests. And that's why did you need
to do practice problems using flow sheets. Let's check out
our problem here. All right? Synthesize the
following molecules using only acetylene,
methyl bromide, in any inorganic
reagents or solvents. So we'll start with the
two propanol molecule. And we'll think to
ourselves OK, how do I make this alcohol
from acetylene? And at first, it's not
so obvious what to do. One approach is to
think backwards. And this is called
retrosynthesis. So I'm going to draw a
retrosynthesis arrow here. So it looks like that. And I think well, OK, what
can I make an alcohol from? So I can make an
alcohol from an alkene. That's one of the
reactions that we've seen this semester
in organic chemistry. Like I draw an alkene like that. And I go back up
to my flow sheet. And let's see if I can
find that reaction. So I'm going from an alkene
to an alcohol, right? So I look at my flow sheet here. And here is an
alkene right here. And here I'm going from
an alkene to an alcohol. So I'm using this
arrow right here. So I have two choices
of reagents, right? And I can add water
and sulfuric acid, which would be a Markovnikov
addition of the OH, right? Or I could do a
hydroboration oxidation which would be an anti
Markovnikov addition of the OH. So I look down here and say,
OK, which one do I want? Which one do I want? I want a Markovnikov addition. I want to add the OH to the most
substituted carbon like this. So it's going to be
water and sulfuric acid for this transition. So water and sulfuric
acid, like that. Now, I have an alkene. But I want to get
back to acetylene. So I go back up here
to my flow sheet. And I try to find
acetylene on my flow sheet. So acetylene is all the way
over here on the top right here. That's acetylene. And I have an alkene. So I need to think
about retrosynthesis. I need to work backwards. OK, so what can I
make an alkene from? I can make it from this alkyne. So I can make it from
this alkyne right here. And how do I turn that
alkyne into an alkene? Well, I can either
use hydrogen gas and Lindlar palladium,
actually, which would give me a cis product. Or I can use the sodium
metal and ammonia which would give me
the trans product here. So let's think about
retro synthesis. All right, so I have an alkene. I'm going to make that
alkene from an alkyne. And I need to think about what
reagents do I want to use here? So would the alkaline look like? Well, if I'm going to add
hydrogen across a triple bond I can just think about turning
this molecule on the left into an alkyne. So all I have to
do is go like that. This added a triple
bond to the molecule. And I made it linear. Because that's, of
course, what alkynes are. So how did I do that? Well, in this case you don't
worry about Cis or trans. So it's pretty easy just to
use hydrogen gas and then Lindlar palladium for
this transition here. So this is my alkyne. And I want to get
back to acetylene. So I draw my
retrosythesis arrow here. And I think, OK, how
can I make that molecule from acetylene like that? So I go back up
to my flow sheet. All right, so how do I make
terminal alkyne from acetylene? Well, I'm right here. I have my alkyne. And I want to make
it from acetylene. So I'm going to do an
alkylation reaction. And because I only
need one alkyl group, I'm only going to
do it one time. So I'll need a one-time
alkylation reaction. And the first step you add is
very strong base, sodium amide. In the second step you add
a primary alkyl halide. So let's go ahead and
draw that down here. So first step, I want to add
the sodium amide like that. In my second step, I want
to add an alkyl halide. So what alkyl halide
do I want to add? Well, I want to add a
methyl group onto my alkine. I want to add a methyl group. And up here it says I
can use methyl bromide. So that will be the
alkyl halide that I will use for this
alkylation reaction. So it's CH3 BR like that. And so now we've done it, right? So we used retrosynthesis. And if you were to
write this on a test you would probably write it in
the reverse order here, right? So you would start
with acetelyne. And then use the regular arrow. And the first step,
add sodium amide. And then add methyl bromide
for an alkylation reaction to put this alkyl
group onto acetylene. Now you have a
terminal alkyne which you can turn into an alkene
by the addition of hydrogen gas and a poison
catalyst, which stops the hydrogenation
at the alkene form. And then you can use a
Markovnikov addition of OH using water and sulfuric acid
to add OH to your alkene. And then you're finally done. So that's the approach
that you should take when you're doing
a synthesis reaction. All right, so we have
time to do one more here. Let's do the synthesis of
the molecule on the right. OK, so you look at the
molecule on the right. And you think to yourself,
all right, so let's go ahead and redraw that molecule
on the right down here. And we have some more room, OK? So here I have my
molecule on the right. Oh, let's go ahead
and use the yellow for our synthesis problems here. So this is my molecule. I have two bromines,
trans from each other. And immediately that should
make you think about a reaction we just did in the
last video, right? Halogenation will add these
guys on trans to an alkyne. So I can add I can add bromine. And my solvent would be
carbon tetrachloride. So CCl4. We just did this
in the last video. So watch the last video for
halogenation of alkynes. And what would that give us? What would that give
us for our alkyne here? So we have our alkyne. And then we'd have to have
an ethyl group on the side. And that would be the reaction. So now we have an alkyne. And I need to make this. I need to make this
alkyne acetylene. So I'm once again at this stage. So I'm once again right here. I have this alkyne. I want to make it
from acetylene. So I'm going to do
my alkylation again. So I'm going to add sodium
amide in my first step and an alkyl halide
in my second step. So let's go ahead and draw that. So let's go ahead and draw
my retrosynthesis arrow here. So I'm trying to synthesize
that alkyne from acetylene. So let's go ahead and
draw acetylene in here. And I know I can do
that in two steps. First step, add my
sodium amide like that. And in my second step, I
need to add an alkyl halide. What kind of alkyl
halide do I need to add? I need to add an ethyl
group onto acetylene. So something like ethyl
bromide would work. So an ethyl bromide
like that, and that would give me my product. And you might think, I'm done. I'm done with my synthesis. But in reality,
you are not done. Because if you go back
and you read the question, the question says, synthesize
the following molecules using only acetylene or methyl
bromide, not ethyl bromide. So you actually can't
use ethyl bromide in terms of stopping right here. You need to figure out a
way to make ethyl bromide. Ethyl bromide
contains two carbons. So let's see if we
can think about a way to make ethyl bromide
from acetylene right here. So let's think to ourselves. OK, so this way works. Now I have to
figure a way to make ethyl bromide from acetylene. So once again, we
use retrosynthesis. So retrosynthesis here. And I think, OK, I
have an alkyl halide. How do I make an alkyl
halide from an alkyne? And once again, it's helpful
to look at your flow sheet. So let's go back up and
look at our flow sheet. So we want to make an alkyl
halide from an alkyne. So let's find our alkyl halide. And it's all the way over here. So our alkyl halide is
all the way over here. So if we're doing
retrosynthesis, I want to get back to an alkyne. So I can make an alkyl
halide from an alkene if I add a hydrogen
halide, so HX, OK? So retrosynthesis, I'm going
to make my alkyl halide from an alkene using a
hydrogen halide here. So I'm going to
go ahead and let's see, what am I going to write? I'm going to have us
start with an alkene. So that's my alkene. It's just ethene or ethylene. And my halogen is bromine here. So my hydrogen halide
would have to be HBr. So if I add HBr to ethylene
I will make ethyl bromide. And I'm getting there, right? I have an alkene now. But I have to start
with acetelyne. So how do I make an
alkene from an alkyne? Once again, just go back to
refresh everyone's memory on the flow sheet. So now I am right here
on the flow sheet. I have my alkene. And I know how to make
an alkene from an alkyne. All I have to do is hydrogenate
it, using my poison catalyst, using my Lindlar palladium. So let's go ahead
and draw that in. So I can make my alkene. I can make my alkene
from an alkyne if I add hydrogen gas
and my poisoned catalyst, Lindlar palladium here. And that'll be acetylene,
actually, all right? So if I take acetylene
here, and let's go ahead and check
our synthesis. Do I meet all of
my qualifications? And again, if I start with
a acetelyne-- and let's just walk back
through here-- and I add hydrogen gas
and poison catalyst I'm going to hydrogenate my
alkyne to for, my alkene right here. I take my alkene
and I add HBr to it. And that's going to
add H+ plus and Br- across my double bond to give
me ethyl bromide as my product. And I take another
molecule of acetylene and to that, I add sodium amide. And I add the ethyl bromide that
I just created from acetylene to alkylate my alkyne. Put an ethyl group on there. And then finally, I do
a halogenation reaction of alkynes to add on my bromines
anti to each other like that. And so we're done. And so once again, if
you write this on a test, it probably makes sense
to write it the other way. But this is just a good way of
thinking about it with the flow sheet. So let's go back up
here, take one more look at the flow sheet. So I encourage you to
use this flow sheet. Make your own. Do lots of practice problems. Do lots of synthesis
practice problems. You can have your
friends make them. And then you can solve
their synthesis problems. You can make synthesis
problems yourself. Again, this is a
very important skill to master if you want to do
well in organic chemistry.