In this video,
we're going to talk about a wiring update
for our camera. We're taking the camera
power button wires out from the transistor and
resistor set up that we had. We're twisting those together. We were going to use a wire
nut to tie those together, which is this orange thing,
but we decided not to. It was too big. So we're going to
solder those together just using a soldering
iron and some solder, and that will hopefully
give us a instant on and we'll be able to take our
pictures much more rapidly. We were having a lot of
problems with the lag and the picture taking
too long, so now we're manually connecting
our camera shutter, and you can see it's
taking pictures right away. So we don't have
to wait anymore, because the power's always
being fed to the camera, and we're able to take the
pictures with our shutter by just controlling
that shutter button. So we're taking out the
transistor and resistor for the power button and
reconnecting our shutter button, and so that should
accelerate the time that it takes to-- Now this may
drain our battery faster, but at this point
in time, that's OK. So we're going to trim off
a little bit of our-- what do you call-- heat shrink, and
we'll be using our heat shrink gun to protect that new
joint that we've created. And we're just going to tuck
that inside Bit-zee's shell, and we won't worry
too much about it because we've demonstrated
that it works there. So it does greatly
improve how quickly the camera can take a
photograph, which is important. And so we're just going to tape
that end off there so we've got our new connection, and
we'll tuck that into the shell, like I said. So now our camera should
function much more responsively than it had in the past. Right now, what we're
doing is we also realized that when we wanted
to get the pictures off of our camera, we couldn't
connect to the camera because it's below
the USB connector. The mini USB connector
on the side of the camera is too low so we weren't
able to connect to the cable. So what we're going to do
is modify the outer shell just a little bit,
of the Bit-zee, so that we can get the cable
to connect to the camera more easily. It looked like it would connect
before but we hadn't done it, so we're just cutting off just
a little bit of the outer part of that shell and that's
going to allow us to raise up the right-hand
side of the camera. OK. So now that we've got that
trimmed out just a little bit there, we can loosen the nut
there on the right-hand side and move the camera
up just a little bit. We'll adjust the nuts that are
underneath the camera board, too, to raise the
camera up and make sure that it stays high enough
to access our USB board-- our USB port, I should say,
on the camera board there-- so just using a screwdriver to
raise those support nuts that are underneath the camera up. And then we'll verify
that the camera can be connected to
the Micro USB cable. And it can, so that's good. And so now we're just
going to put our nuts back on the camera, tighten it down,
and we should be good to go.