- [Instructor] So, ligaments
and tendons are types of extra strong and
dense connective tissues. Ligaments connect bones to other bones, and tendons connect muscle to bone. And the point where one bone articulates or meets up with another
is called a joint. Now, there are different types of joints found throughout the body, and the first type is called synarthroses, which are immovable joints where two bones are fused together. For example, you'll find these
types of joints in the skull. When you were a baby, your
skull was made up of a bunch of different pieces that
grew as your brain grew. And then, as an adult, the joints between these bones then fused and became synarthroses. The next type of joint is
called an amphiarthroses. Amphi- meaning it's both stiff
but also slightly movable. And an example of amphiarthroses would be your vertebral joints. And then finally, we have
what are synovial joints, which are also known as diarthroses, of which there are a
couple different types. One type, for example, is the ball and socket synovial joint, and you'll find examples
of ball and socket joints in your shoulders or in your hips. These are joints that have
many degrees of motion. And then, another type of
synovial joint is the hinge joint. An example of a hinge joint would be, say, your elbow or your knee where that joint pretty much
moves in just one plane, like the hinge of a door. Now, synovial joints are named so because they are lubricated by a fluid called synovial fluid, which is contained within
the synovial capsule that surrounds the whole joint. Now, the surfaces of bones
that meet up in a joint are lined by a special
kind of smooth cartilage called articular cartilage, which is composed of
specifically hyaline cartilage. And articular cartilage, like
all cartilage, is avascular, meaning it lacks any sort of
vasculature or blood vessels. And so, it has a hard time
getting the nutrients it needs to heal and recover if
it were to become damaged by overuse or infection. And as you might be
somewhat familiar with, the overuse of joints over
time can lead to inflammation, which is called arthritis, from arth- meaning joint, and -itis meaning inflammation. And this can lead to permanent destruction of articular cartilage, which causes the pain and
stiffness of arthritis.