In the last unit, we crossed the seventh major threshold
of complexity in this course, agriculture. We saw how, from about
10,000 years ago, small agricultural
villages began to spread in many different
parts of the world. These were in fact some
of the most important human communities
that have ever existed. Now, at first
that may seem surprising because when we think
of human history, we often think first of the
great agrarian civilizations. We think of Rome and its empire or we think of
the great Han capitol, Xian, and its empire. But without the slow spread
of simple farming villages, those agrarian civilizations
could never have existed. The real key to understanding
agrarian civilizations is increasing complexity. Complexity seems to increase
as populations increase, but to support
larger populations, you need to be able
to get more resources from a given area, particularly
more food resources. And that's where
farming comes in. Thanks to farming, between
10,000 and 5,000 years ago, human populations seemed
to have increased from about five million
to ten times as much-- about 50 million. A lot of those humans
still lived as foragers, but probably by 5,000 years ago, the vast majority of them
lived as peasant farmers. Now, within each agrarian area,
villages began to bud off, both within the core regions
and at their edges, so villages began to spread. And at the same time,
farmers began to develop new and more productive
ways of farming. They began to farm areas
they couldn't farm before. They developed new crops
and they began to develop new and more productive
technologies of farming. From about 6,000 years ago,
some communities began to find more productive ways
of using their domestic animals. Instead of just using them
for their meat or skin, which you can only do
when you slaughter them, they began to use
them for products that they develop
while they're still alive such as their fur
or their milk or their draft power. Now, that was a real
energy revolution. A human can deliver
perhaps 75 watts of power, but a horse or an ox can deliver
almost ten times as much. And using that
power to pull plows, some communities
began to farm lands that you couldn't possibly farm using just ordinary
hand-held hoes. And using that power,
you could also carry goods in a way that was impossible
just for human porters. And finally,
these more productive ways of using animals
made it possible for so-called pastoral nomads to settle the arid
steppe lands of Eurasia, traveling nomadically
with their herds of livestock. But an even more
productive innovation was irrigation. Irrigation is used to farm areas where there's
not enough rainfall. If those areas
have fertile soils, which a lot of them do, then you can get huge
crops through irrigation, particularly if you
introduce large-scale, sophisticated
irrigation systems with canals and ditches that require a lot
of organization. As farming technologies became more complex
and more productive, they eventually allowed
the creation of larger, more populous
and more complex societies, the societies we call
agrarian civilizations. This transition
seems to have happened first in Mesopotamia, in the lands
south of the Fertile Crescent, and also at about the same time
along the Nile Valley. In these regions,
as villages spread and farming
became more productive, eventually there appeared
the first really large villages and then towns and cities. In the lands between
the great rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates
in Mesopotamia, irrigation systems emerged that produced huge crops
and supported large populations. And then from about 5,000
years ago, there appeared in the south of Mesopotamia,
in the region called Sumer, the first real cities. These had populations
up to 50,000 people. They had walled gardens. They had fortifications
around them. They had temples,
they had palaces, and they had complex
irrigation systems. We even have a map
of one of them, Nippur. That map was carved in clay about 3,500 years ago. These are the most complex
human societies that had ever existed so far. The real key
to the creation of cities seems to be the tiny surpluses
that peasant farmers produce, particularly as their farming
became more productive. What this meant was that
it was no longer necessary for everyone to be a farmer. Specialists began to appear. Potters and merchants
and priests and soldiers. And now, something happened that was a bit like something
that had happened already 500 or 600 million years earlier with the appearance of the first
multicelled organisms. Individuals got so dependent
on each other that they began to need some sort of
coordinating mechanism. So potters, for example, needed
markets to sell their goods on. Soldiers needed governments
that could hire their services. Merchants needed courts
to settle disputes. Town dwellers and farmers
needed someone to maintain the huge irrigation systems
on which they depended. And everyone, frankly,
needed someone to organize all of these increasingly
complex relationships. As a result,
in response to these needs, a class of power
brokers appeared. Most of these were men
and what they did was they began to take on the
role of coordinating society. In villages, they were probably
chosen by those they led who needed someone
to do this job, but as power brokers became more powerful
and had more resources, eventually they began to hire paid enforcers who could
impose their will by force. And now, for the first time,
we have true states and true governments,
and also have something else. There has appeared
a new type of food chain within human society. Farmers extract resources
from the environment, from the biosphere. But above them
there's now a new layer of elite groups who extract resources
from the farmers by the threat of force. So now societies develop
a whole hierarchy. At the top there's
a small minority of people who are very rich
and very powerful who extract resources from
the vast majority of peasants who may make up 90% of society. And in addition, there's always,
we find, a small class of menials or slaves
at the very bottom of the heap. Agrarian civilizations appeared in many different
parts of the world. There were important
differences between them. They had different languages,
different religious traditions, different artistic traditions, but there were also hugely
important similarities. All of them, for example,
had big cities, and those cities had what we
call monumental architecture: temples, pyramids, palaces. They also had rulers. They had hierarchies. They had tax systems. They had armies. And supporting the whole thing was a large
population of peasants, most of whom lived
outside the major cities. Agrarian civilizations
also had writing-- all of them, and this is really important because it seems to have
accelerated collective learning. Writing probably originated
as a system of accounting as those elites
and power brokers who were accumulating
more and more resources tried to keep track
of their resources. But eventually the
symbols used for accounting could be used to convey
all the nuances of everyday languages and generate literatures
and history-- proper writing. Agrarian civilizations appeared
wherever agriculture flourished. So this means it appeared in all the
core regions of agriculture with some
interesting exceptions. It didn't appear
in Papua New Guinea, probably because the root crops that were grown there
could not be stored and agriculture was
not quite productive enough to generate surpluses
and support specialists. As we've seen, the first real
agrarian civilizations seem to have appeared in Mesopotamia
and along the Nile Valley about 5,000 years ago. Some of these consisted really
of little more than cities with
surrounding villages, but some were huge, including the first
Egyptian state, which covered a vast
area along the Nile. By about 4,000 years ago, we have evidence of agrarian
civilizations in China and other parts of Asia, including Korea, which is
where this folk village is. We get evidence of cities
also appearing in other regions such as central Asia and in Pakistan
along the river Indus. Then, by about 3,000 years ago,
we get evidence of huge empires such as the Assyrian empire. We get evidence of
huge empires in China and also in Egypt. The first real agrarian
civilizations in the Americas seem to have appeared
about 2,000 years ago, just over 2,000 years ago. By 500 years ago, when Europeans
first reached the Americas, the Inca and the Aztec empires
covered a colossal territory. Agrarian civilizations,
like the agrarian technologies on which they were based,
slowly evolved, spread, developed, got more complex,
more populous over 4,000 years. By 1,000 years ago,
it's probable that most humans
living on Earth lived within
agrarian civilizations and almost all of them
would have been farmers.