- Oh hey, I didn't see you over there. How long have you been
waiting in this line? I've been here for like 15 minutes and it's fricking freezing out here. I mean, whose banana you gotta
peel to get into this club? Well, while we're here I guess
this might not be a bad time to continue our discussion about cells, because cells, like nightclubs, have to be selectively permeable. They can only work if they let
in the stuff that they need and they kick out the stuff
that they don't need like trash, and ridiculously drunk people,
and Justin Bieber fans. But no matter what stuff it is, it has to pass through
the cell's membrane. Some things can pass
really easily into cells and without a lot of help,
like water or oxygen. But a lot of other things
that they need like sugar or other nutrients, or signaling
molecules, or steroids, well, they can't get in or it
will take a really long time for them to do it. Yeah, I can relate. Today we're gonna be
talking about how substances move through cell membranes,
what is happening all the time including right now in
me and right now in you. And this is vital to all life,
because it's not just how cells acquire what they need
and get rid of what they don't, it's also how cells
communicate with one another. Different materials have different ways of crossing the cell membrane
and there are basically two categories of ways: there's active transport and
there's passive transport. Passive transport doesn't
require any energy, which is great because
important things like oxygen and water can use this to get into cells really easily. And they do this through
what we call diffusion. Let's say I'm finally in this show, and I'm in the show with my brother John, some of you know my brother
John and I love him, but... he is not a big fan of people. I mean, he likes people,
he doesn't like big crowds, being part of big crowds, of
people standing nearby him, breathing on him,
touching him accidentally, that sort of thing. Because Johns with me at the show, we're hanging out with all of
our friends near the stage, but then he starts moving further
and further from the stage so he doesn't get a bunch
hipsters invading his space. That's basically what diffusion is. If everyone in the club were John Green, they would try and get as much space between all of them as possible
until it was a uniform mass of John Greens throughout the club. When oxygen gets crowded, it finds places that are less crowded and
moves into those spaces. When water gets crowded
it does the same thing, it moves to where there's less water. When water does this across a membrane, it's a kind of diffusion called osmosis. This is how your cells
regulate their water content. Not only does this apply to water itself which, as we've discussed,
is the world's best solvent. You're gonna learn more about
water in our water episode. It also works with water that
contains dissolved materials or solutions, like solutions of salt water or solutions of sugar water or booze, which is just a solution
of ethanol and water. If the concentration
of a solution is higher inside of a cell than it
is outside of the cell, then that solution is called hypertonic. Like power thirst, it's got
everything packed into it. And if the concentration
inside of the cell is lower than outside of the cell,
it's called hypotonic. Which is sort of a sad
version of hypertonic. So like with Charlie Sheen,
we don't want the crazy, manic Charlie Sheen and we
don't like the super sad, depressed Charlie Sheen.
We want the in the middle Charlie Sheen who can just
make us laugh and be happy. And that is the state
that water concentrations are constantly seeking. It's called Isotonic
when the concentration is the same on both sides, outside and in. And this works in real life,
we can actually show it to you. This vase is full of fresh
water and we also have a sausage casing, which is
actually made out of cellulose. And inside of that, we have salt water. We've dyed it so that you can
see it move through the casing which is acting as our membrane. This time-lapse shows how over a few hours the salt water diffuses
into the pure water. It will keep diffusing until
the concentration of salt in the water is the same
inside the membrane as outside. When water does this,
attempting to become isotonic it's called moving across
it's concentration gradient. Most of my cells right now
are bathed in a solution that has the same concentration
as inside of them, and this is important. For example, if you took
one of my red blood cells, and put it in a glass of pure water, it would be so hypertonic,
so much stuff would be in the cell compared
to outside the cell, that water would rush
into the red blood cell and it would literally
explode. So we don't want that. But if the concentration of
my blood plasma were too high, all the water would rush out of my cell and it would shrivel up and be useless. And that's why your kidneys
are constantly on the job, regulating the concentration
of your blood plasma to keep it isotonic. Now water can permeate the
cell membrane without any help, but it's not actually particularly easy. As we discussed in the last episode, cell membranes are made
out of phospholipids. And the phospholipid
bilayer is hydrophilic, or water loving on the outside, and hydrophobic, or water
hating on the inside. So water molecules have a hard time passing through these layers,
because they get stuck at the nonpolar hydrophobic core. That is where the
channel proteins come in. They allow passage of
stuff like water and ions without using any energy. They straddle the width of
the membrane and inside, they have channels that are hydrophilic, which draws the water through. The proteins that are
specifically for channeling water are called aquaporins. Each one can pass 3 billion
water molecules a second. Makes me have to pee
just thinking about it. Things like oxygen and water,
that cells need constantly, they can get into the cell
without any energy necessary. But most chemicals, they use
what's called active transport. This is especially useful
if you wanna move something in the opposite direction of
it's concentration gradient, from a low concentration
to a high concentration. So say we're back at that
show, and I'm keeping company with John, whose being all
antisocial in his polite and charming way. But after half a beer and an
argument about who's the best Doctor Who, I wanna get back to my friends across the crowded bar. So I transport myself against
the concentration gradient of humans, spending a lot of
energy dodging stomping feet, throwing an elbow to get to them. That is high energy transport. In a cell getting the energy necessary to do pretty much anything,
including moving something at the wrong direction across
it's concentration gradient requires ATP. ATP, Adenosine Tri-phosphate. You just wanna replay
that over and over again until it just rolls off the tongue because it's one of the
most important chemicals that you will ever, ever, ever hear about. Adenosine tri-phosphate, ATP. If our bodies were America,
ATP would be credit cards. It's such an important form
of information currency that we're going to do an entire
separate episode about it, which will be here. I was going to the wrong
direction, but it will be here when we've done it. But for now, here's what you need to know. When a cell requires active transport, it basically has to pay
a fee in the form of ATP, to a transport protein. A particularly important
kind of fricking sweet transport protein is called
the sodium-potassium pump. Most cells have them, but
they're especially vital to cells that need lots of energy, like muscle cells and brain cells. Oh Biolography, it's my
favorite part of this show. The sodium-potassium pump
was discovered in the 1950's by a Danish medical doctor
named Jens Christian Skou, who was studying how
anesthetics work on membranes. He noticed that there was
a protein in cell membranes that could pump sodium out of a cell. And the way he got to know
this pump was by studying the nerves of crabs,
because crab nerves are huge compared to human's nerves and are easier to dissect and observe. But crabs are still small,
so he needed a lot of them. He struck a deal with the local
fishermen and over the years studied approximately 25,000
crabs, each of which he boiled to study their fresh nerve fibers. He published his findings
on the sodium-potassium pump in 1957, and in the meantime became known for the distinct odor
that filled the halls of The Department of
Physiology at the university where he worked. 40 years after making his
discovery, Skou was awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry. And heres what he taught us. Turns out these pumps worked against two gradients at the same time. One is the concentration gradient, and the other is the
electrochemical gradient. That's the difference in electrical charge on either side of the cell's membrane. So the nerve cells that Skou
was studying, like nerve cells in your brain, typically
have a negative charge inside relative to the outside. They also usually have a low concentration of sodium ions inside. The pump works against
both of these conditions. Collecting three positively
charged sodium ions and pushing them out into
the positively charged sodium ion rich environment. To get the energy to do this,
the protein pump breaks up a molecule of ATP. ATP, adenosine tri-phosphate,
an adenosine molecule with three phosphate groups attached to it. So an ATP connects with the protein pump, an enzyme breaks the covalent bond on one of those phosphates in a
burst of excitement and energy. The split releases enough energy to change the shape of the pump,
so that it opens outward, and releases three sodium ions. This new shape also makes it
a good fit for potassium ions that are outside the cell, so
the pump lets two of those in. So what you end up with is a
nerve cell that is literally and metaphorically charged. It has all those sodium
ions waiting outside with this intense desire
to get inside of the cell, and when something
triggers the nerve cell, it lets all of those in. And that gives the nerve cell a bunch of electric chemical energy, which
it can then use to help you feel things, or touch, or smell,
or taste or have a thought. There is still yet another
way that stuff gets inside of cells, and this
also requires energy, it's also a form of active transport. It's called vesicular
transport and the heavy lifting is done by vesicles, which are tiny sacks made of phospholipids, just
like the cell membrane. This kind of active transport
is also called cytosis from the Greek for cell action. When vesicles transport
materials outside of a cell it's called exocytosis
or outside cell action. A great example of this is going
on in your brain right now. It's how your nerve cells
release neurotransmitters. You've heard of neurotransmitters, they're very important in
helping you feel different ways, just like dopamine and serotonin. After neurotransmitters are synthesized and packaged into vesicles,
they're transported until the vesicle reaches the membrane. When that happens, the
two bilayers rearrange so that they fuse, and then the
neurotransmitter spills out. And now I remember where I left my keys! Now just play that process in reverse and you'll see how material
gets inside the cell. And that's endocytosis. There are three different
ways that this happens. My personal favorite is phagocytosis, and the awesome there begins with the fact that that name itself means
'devouring cell action'. Check this out, so this
particle outside here is some kind of dangerous
bacterium in your body and this is a white blood cell. Chemical receptors on
the blood cell membrane detect this punk invader and attach to it. Actually reaching out
around it an engulfing it. Then the membrane forms a
vesicle to carry it inside where it lays a total
unholy beat down on it with enzymes and other cool weapons. Pinocytosis, or drinking
action is very similar to phagocytosis except inside
of surrounding whole particles it just surrounds things that
have already been dissolved. Here the membrane just folds in a little to form the beginning of a
channel and then pinches off to form a vesicle that holds the fluid. Most of your cells are
doing this right now because it's how our
cells absorb nutrients. But what if a cell needs something that only occurs in very
small concentrations? That's when cells use clusters of specialized receptor
proteins in the membrane that form a vesicle when receptors connect with the molecule that
they're looking for. For example, your cells have specialized cholesterol receptors that
allow you to absorb cholesterol. If those receptors don't work, which can happen with
some genetic conditions, cholesterol is left to
float around in your blood and eventually causes heart disease. So that's just one of many reasons to appreciate whats called
receptor mediated endocytosis.