All right, so we're
going to make a motor. And it's similar to the one that
we use in our hair dryer-- much simpler, but similar
principles are involved. So we're going to take
a scrap block of wood, and we're going to mark
the corners, line to line. And we're going to
just do that so we can find the center
of the block. And that will just give
us a reference point. We've got some copper coil here. This is magnet wire. And that's the same
type of wire that's used inside of our motor. We're going to use that to
make our field windings. And then we're also going to
use some permanent magnets. So we need to find
a place that we can mount all of these
different things. And we need to
determine how we're going to set the magnets up. So we're going to make sure
that the magnets are oriented so that their poles are
opposing one another. And I also have
two washers here. We're going to use those
washers as bearings. And I think we're
going to make our field windings about the
size of that cap. Now be careful, the
magnets will snap together. So now we're just
positioning all our parts that we're going to need
and trying to figure out where they'll go and how close
they'll need to be together. Of course, the cap
is what we're going to make our winding around. So the washers that are
going to support the winding need to be pretty
close to the cap. And the permanent magnets
also need to be pretty close. So we're just making
our marks here so that we can position everything. And it's pretty important
that things are lined up fairly accurately, otherwise the
winding may not turn smoothly. So we determined that
we're going to measure off of the center point and about
an inch away from the center of the square. So now that we have our
intersection points marked, we're going to go ahead
and drill our holes. We've taped the drill
about 1/2 an inch up, so we want the hole to
go in about 1/2 an inch. And we're using a 3/16
inch bit on the sides. And then we'll use a 1/8 inch
bit for our-- the other sides. And the other sides are
going to hold our bearings. So these are the bearing screws. And we just happen to have
some extra scrap screws, so that's what these
screws are from-- or for. These actually came
from an Ikea bed. And then these are
just some scrap screws that we had laying around. You can use any screws or nails. What's important is that the
screws are lined up right and that they're the same level. So that will improve the
efficiency of our motor. So we're just checking
the level and making sure everything's
lined up correctly. And now we're going
to take some hot glue and get our permanent magnets. Make sure that they
are oriented so that they are attracted
to one another. So we want their opposite
poles facing one another. And so we just put some
hot glue on the screw and then set the
magnet in there. And the main reason
we did it this way is that it's really
easy to change the position of the
magnets if we need to. And we may need to do that. So we've got a washer here. And again, we're just hot gluing
that washer right in place, in a vertical orientation. And the hot glue allows
for easy adjustments. And so now we're going
to take our bottle cap that we had talked
about earlier. We're going to wrap our
field coil around it. And we're going to go
around it seven times. And then once we've got the
coil a fairly good length, we have about 3 inches
of wire on either side. We'll loop the wire
through and tie it off so that it stays
in a consistent loop. There we go. And then we'll do the
other side as well. I'll just loop the wire through. And that just kind of holds
the loop together and gives us something to connect
with our washers. All right, now we're just going
to tape the edges of the wire to keep it together. And we're just using
electrical tape. You can really use any kind of
tape that you happen to have. Again, this wire
is insulated, even though it doesn't
look like it is. It has a thin lacquer
coating on it. And so what we need
to do now, in order to allow power to
flow through the wire and to get it to behave
like an electromagnet, is we need to scrape off the
lacquer coating on one side. And notice how I'm
rotating the coil. That's important. If you just have a
thin strip scraped off, it may not be enough. So you really want to make sure
the entire backside of the wire is completely scraped
clean of the insulation. And you can feel the difference. Once the insulation
is completely gone, it's a little rougher than
when it's still there. So now we've found out that the
magnet was a little too close. And so we are able to take it
off with the hot glue-- just pop it off and
then reposition it. OK, so we're just making
some fine-tuning adjustments with our field there. And what's happening
is the power flows from the battery through
the washer, into the coil, and creates an electromagnet. On one side of the coil, it
pushes against the north pole magnet. On the other side, it pushes
against the south pole magnet. Then the-- it causes
the coil to flip over. And before it does
that, the electricity flows out of the
other end of the coil, back to the batteries. And then the coil flips over. And then the process repeats. And so what's happening
is that the coil is functioning like
an electromagnetic, pushing against our
permanent magnets and rotating again and again. Now, this coil is just one loop. The motor in our hair
dryer had five loops, and so it was called
a five-pole motor. So now we're going
to see if we can use this motor to do some work. So we're going to
take our washer here, and we're going to just mark
out some circles in paper. And we'll take some
scissors, and we're going to cut those circles out. I'm going to make a little
tiny fan out of this paper. Now the motor that we
made isn't super powerful, so we have to make a
pretty light and small fan. But it does move and
demonstrate the principle. So we're just twisting each
of the vanes on the fan so that they are--
each of the blades, I should say, on the fan so that
they look more like a real fan. And we're going to push that
through the end of our coil. We'll just put a
little bit of hot glue on that to hold it in place. And then we'll give
it a whirl and see if we can get the motor
to actually spin and do some work for us. And it's-- there it goes. So some interesting experiments
you might want to try are, what happens when you
take one of the magnets away? If you have the
two on either side, what happens when
you take one away? What happens when you
rotate the magnets around, and they're not
opposite poles facing, but they're similar
poles facing? If you have enough
magnet wire, you might want to try scraping
all of the magnet wire clean and seeing what happens
or scraping none of it and seeing what happens. Does it still turn? Why, why not? You may also want to take
a look at maybe doing multiple windings and
seeing if that changes the performance of the motor. Hope you've enjoyed it.