[Narrator] In the Northern Hemisphere,
nearly one-quarter of the land is covered by an icy expanse
called permafrost. Extending from the surface
down thousands of feet, its soil contains billions of tons
of carbon-rich plant and animal remains suspended in
a perpetually frozen state. But now, with human activity warming
the Arctic two to three times faster than the rest of the globe,
this permafrost is starting to thaw. And, alarmingly, it contains
twice as much carbon as in the atmosphere today, and three times as much as in
all the world's forests combined. As it thaws, microscopic animals
called microbes that have been frozen for up
to tens of thousands of years are waking up and feeding on
the newly thawed carbon remains, emitting dangerous
heat-trapping gases. [Tanentzap] If we were to take
all of the microbes on Earth, we'd find that they'd weigh
probably 50 times more than all of the animals on Earth. Now, these microbes need to eat and what they eat are the dead
remains of plants and animals. And, as a byproduct
of feeding on that material, they produce carbon dioxide
and methane. [Narrator] To understand how
warming temperatures accelerate microbial activity, you need to look no further
than your own kitchen. [Natali] It's like having a chicken
in your freezer. You take the chicken out, you put it
on the counter and it starts to thaw, and then you go away
for the weekend, you forgot about the chicken
that's on the counter and you come back and the house smells
and the chicken's decomposed. That's what happens to the carbon
that's in permafrost. It's fuel for microbes. As they're breaking it down
and using that fuel, they're releasing greenhouse gases–
carbon dioxide and methane– into the atmosphere. [Narrator] Driven by fossil fuel emissions
raising the temperature in the Arctic, these microbes are
amplifying the warming as the permafrost thaws
by releasing more carbon dioxide and methane
into the atmosphere and warming the climate even more,
in a self-perpetuating loop. Which of these heat-trapping
gases is released depends on the environment
in which microbes digest the carbon. In oxygen-rich conditions,
like soil and lake surfaces, microbes produce carbon dioxide
as a byproduct. But in environments
lacking oxygen, like bogs and muddy lake bottoms,
they produce methane, which is nearly 30 times more potent
at trapping heat than carbon dioxide. Scientists predict the impact
of both methane and CO2 added to the atmosphere from
permafrost thaw will be staggering. [Natali] The amount of carbon that could be
released from thawing permafrost by the end of the century
has been estimated to be up to 150 billion
tons of carbon. So, to put that in context,
the U.S. is currently the second largest greenhouse gas
emitting country in the world. If we took our current
U.S. emissions and added that up
through 2100, this is on par with
the amount of carbon that might be released
from thawing permafrost. [Narrator] Last summer, while working
in her usual field location in Alaska, Natali witnessed a remarkable
acceleration of permafrost melting. [Natali] First of all, it was
very, very warm, it was 90 degrees Fahrenheit
in the tundra. There were places where we walked,
where my foot fell into the ground because there was no longer
any ground structure because the permafrost
was thawing. I've never seen change
happening that quickly from one year to the next. [Narrator] To understand how this thawing
will impact the global climate, Natali and her team
collect permafrost cores from different locations
across the Arctic. In the lab, she analyzes
their carbon content and composition to determine how much gas
will be released when the permafrost thaws. [Natali] These cores were taken
from a location that has really organic-rich,
deep, peaty soils, and you can tell that
when you look at this core because it's really dark brown, and that dark brown color means
that it holds a lot of carbon. [Narrator] The thawing permafrost
not only impacts the climate through the release
of greenhouse gases, it can entirely transform
the landscape, as Natali has seen
in Duvanny Yar, Russia. [Natali] I had never seen
permafrost thaw and ground collapse
of that magnitude. I remembered driving
up to it on the boat and it was like, wow, this huge cliff,
many, many stories high. You see these
really, really fine roots that have been frozen
for 40,000 years. Once they're thawed,
they'll decompose in a year. [Narrator] And something else
is having a dramatic effect on the landscape in Siberia: crater-like holes which are
thought to be the result of a build-up of methane
under a thick layer of ice. When the ice melts, the pressure
gives way, causing an explosion. A year or two later,
the craters form lakes that release the previously buried
methane into the atmosphere. Sometimes lakes that form from shifts
in the landscape emit so much methane, you can light them on fire. As the permafrost thaws
and the Arctic heats up faster than the rest of the planet, that blanket of warming
mixes into the atmosphere, encircles the globe, and it leads
to all kinds of global disasters: crop failure in the Midwest, droughts and flooding in Africa, record heat waves in India. And in the Northern Hemisphere,
home to most of the world's lakes, the warming is having an impact
similar to the permafrost thaw by bringing new food sources
to the microbes that live there. Plant species from south
of this region are migrating north, setting off another
feedback loop. [Tanentzap] Traditionally, the pine needles
that the microbes would be digesting would have provided quite a limited
diversity of food sources. But now, with deciduous
broadleaf species, like maple and oak, that's bringing
a much greater diversity of organic matter and carbon
for microbes to digest. [Narrator] More food choices means
an increase in microbial activity, which in muddy lake bottoms
lacking oxygen leads to methane production,
a warmer climate, and more greening of lakes
in an ever-amplifying loop. And the geographical range where
this dynamic is happening is expanding. [Tanentzap] That northward shift isn't just
happening in northern latitudes where most of
the world's lakes are found, but also elsewhere, like New England,
like the Great Lakes area. [Narrator] Deciduous trees aren't the only species
drawn to the warmer climate. [Tanentzap] Another major change that we're
seeing happening around lakes is that cattails are moving
northwards into the lakes, where they previously didn't grow. And where we compared
the effect of cattails versus pines and oaks
and maples on the amount of methane
released from lake sediments, what we found was that
there was at least 400 times more methane produced
when we added the cattail litter than any of the tree litter. [Narrator] Models show that
in the next 50 years cattails around lakes
will double. And since more cattails
means more methane, methane production is
predicted to increase by 70% across all northern lakes. [Tanentzap] From the global
climate perspective, this is something that we really
need to be worrying about and thinking about how
to actually mitigate and offset. [Narrator] And the problem
is only going to get worse as the amount of heat-trapping gases
microbes produce increases. Today, we have a choice: we can continue
with business as usual and let these warming feedback loops
spin out of control, or we can choose
another way of living. We can implement policies
that support a sustainable future, we can curb fossil fuel use, and regreen the Earth. This would slow down
and eventually reverse the feedback loops
to restore the planet. For permafrost,
the less warming we create, the less carbon dioxide and methane
will be released into the atmosphere, the more temperatures will drop, and the more permafrost
will stay frozen. [Natali] Once carbon is emitted
from permafrost, it will take a very long time
for it to build back up. There are some places
where the physical effects of permafrost thaw
may be permanent. But in other cases, when you're
having permafrost thaw, you can have
permafrost refreeze. [Narrator] Since greenhouse gases mix
throughout the global atmosphere, action everywhere in the world
will reduce permafrost thaw, and reduced permafrost thaw
will decrease warming everywhere in the world. [Natali] Communicating with our policymakers
that this is important to us, that this is impacting
each one of us, that this is important for
human health, for human well-being, is the most important action
that each one of us can take. [Duffy] To successfully address climate change
requires an unprecedented level of societal cooperation,
cooperation across nations, cooperation within nations,
across multiple sectors. And that could happen;
it does require leadership. Ideally, what science can do
for us in this conversation is illustrate different
possible futures.