(soft piano music) - [Steven] More than 20
years after Michelangelo finished painting the frescoes
on the Sistine Chapel ceiling he was asked to do another fresco, this time on the altar wall. - [Beth] And on the altar
wall Michelangelo painted the Last Judgment. This is an old subject in art history from the New Testament from
the Book of Revelation. - [Steven] It's not
possible to overestimate how important this location is. This is the high altar
of the Sistine Chapel. This is where the pope led mass, and this is still the room
where the college of cardinals selects the next pope. - [Beth] So Michelangelo paints
Christ in the top center. On either side of Christ are saints and Old Testament figures. But below Christ we have the separation of the blessed from the damned. On Christ's left, the damned
who are going to hell, and on Christ's right, the
blessed who are going to heaven. - [Steven] There is no more dramatic, no more powerful an image
in the Catholic tradition. This is the end of time, and we see Christ as a powerful judge, who's facing towards
the damned smiting them. - [Beth] He seems to be
pointing to the wounds that he received on the cross. Beside him is the Virgin Mary, who crouches powerless. She seems no longer to be
able to intercede for mankind. - [Steven] Although she looks
down towards the blessed, and seems to give over
to Christ the damned. - [Beth] On Christ's
right the blessed rise up to heaven from their graves. They're pulled by angels
who seem to assist them in their ascent to heaven. - [Steven] I love these images, because Michelangelo bodies are so dense. They're so powerful. They're so muscular. Even the spirits that
are being resurrected, that they have to be lifted
up with great effort. And you can see one angel pulling up the blessed by a rosary. - [Beth] That's right. A couple who's literally
being helped to ascent into heaven on the
strength of their prayer represented by the rosary beads. Directly below Christ we see
angels blowing their trumpets awakening the dead from their graves. - [Steven] Look at those
long golden trumpets. And this is in the Book of Revelation, so it is made explicit here. - [Beth] But those angels don't look very much like what we expect of angels. They are clearly male and powerful. Their heads are too
small for their bodies. In blowing the trumpets
they look almost as though they're going to explode with
the power that that takes. - [Steven] Well, they
have to wake the dead, and that's exactly what they're doing. We can crypts opening up. We can see graves. We can see these spirits that
seem to emerge from the earth. It's so unexpected, the
physicality that Michelangelo has rendered, the spirits. You would think that they
would be incorporeal. They would have no mass. They would have no gravity. They would have no weight. But the opposite is true here. We feel the struggle, the
difficulty of saving those souls, of bringing those souls into heaven. - [Beth] Yeah, there's no
shying away from the body here. It is typical of Michelangelo
that there's this interest in the physicality of the body, the musculature of the body. - [Steven] And we see
the emphasis on the body even more so perhaps on the
right side with the damned. - [Beth] So where on one
side we see the blessed rising up toward heaven,
on the opposite side we see the fires of hell and the
damned being delivered there. - [Steven] They're being
delivered on a boat. You can see the oarsman. This would be Charon,
swinging his great oar to kick them off, and
the demons are helping with their pitchforks and
they're actually harvesting the new souls for hell. It's a pretty nasty scene. - [Beth] Yeah, there are demons everywhere pulling the figures off
the boat and into hell. - [Steven] It's not just the demons that are doing their part. It's also the angels. Just above this scene
we can see the damned who are being pushed down into hell, they seem to be striving
desperately to get out, and they're being punched by
angels who are above them. But probably most arresting of all is the representation of a single figure. He's got a devil that's
pulling at him from below, but it's his psychological
intensity that is giving him the name the Damned Man. - [Beth] He seems to have just realized that he's going to spend eternity in hell. And there are demons also
wrapped around his legs pulling him down toward hell. - [Steven] But look at his face. The hand is covering one
eye as if he can't believe, he can't bear to see his fate. On the other hand, his
other eye is open wide as if this is the moment of recognition. - [Beth] When we look at the scene here in the Sistine Chapel we
can look at Michelangelo's early work on the ceiling right above us where we see figures with
bodies that are elegant and noble and have a sense of dignity. But here on the altar wall in the scene of the Last Judgment the figures
look intentionally ugly and intentionally awkward. Their proportions are all wrong. Their heads are too
small for their bodies. Their muscles look over drawn. - [Steven] That's especially true of the representation of Christ. I mean look at the size of that torso. It's completely out of scale with his head and with his height. So Michelangelo is
looking at the human body not in the way that one might
have in the high renaissance. That is, as a reference back
to the classical tradition and a kind of ideal proportion. Instead, he's looking at the body as full of symbolic value. He's willing to distort
the body for the power of the painting itself. - [Beth] Right, the religious
message is key here. And the body is in the
service of that message. In the intervening years the Church has been challenged by Martin Luther and the beginnings of the
Protestant Reformation. - [Steven] This was a
moment of great turmoil, and as Michelangelo gets
older his earlier optimism seems to have been replaced
by a deep pessimism. - [Beth] That might be
best seen in the figure of St. Catherine, who holds a wheel, which is her attribute since
she was murdered on a wheel. But here, she looks so
ungainly and if we compare her to the beauty of Eve on the ceiling, the difference in the way Michelangelo is treating the body is clear. - [Steven] Another figure that represents the profound pessimism of this fresco can be seen just to the
right and below Christ. We see there a very large
figure on a cloud, nude, who's looking up at Christ
holding a knife in one hand and his skin in the other. This is Saint Bartholomew,
who was martyred by having his skin removed while he was alive. - [Beth] Saints are always
identified by their attributes, often by the instrument
of their martyrdom. So here it makes sense that
Bartholomew holds a knife. - [Steven] But art historians
noticed one curious decision by Michelangelo in the
representation of Bartholomew. The face that we see
in the skin is actually a self portrait by the artist. - [Beth] So that means
we must ask the question why would Michelangelo put his own face, his own likeness on the
skin of Saint Bartholomew here in the middle
between Christ the savior and the Damned Man? - [Steven] And worse than that, Bartholomew seems to be holding the skin ever so lightly as if
his fingers might open and he might simply let it fall into the boat of Charon
on its way to hell. - [Beth] This seems to
express Michelangelo's concern for the fate of his own soul, something that we also see in
his poetry from this period. And in fact, we can draw a diagonal line from the upper left from
the cross in the lunate through the crown of
thorns, through Christ, through the skin of Saint Bartholomew, the Damned Man, and then
down to the fires of hell. (soft piano music)