In the last video, we looked
at nucleophilic aromatic substitution with an
addition-elimination reaction. In this video,
we're going to look at an elimination-addition
reaction, also called the benzine mechanism. And we start with
bromobenzene here. And to bromobenzene, we
add some sodium amide, which is a strong base,
and some liquid ammonia. And you can see that
we have substituted an amino group for our
halogen on our ring to form aniline as our product. Let's go ahead and look
at the mechanism here. And so we're going to start
with the elimination parts. Let me go ahead and write
down here elimination. And the sodium amide
functions as a base. So we go ahead and draw
the amide anion here, with a negative 1 formal
charge on this nitrogen. And so it's going to take this
aromatic proton right here, which leaves these electrons
behind on this carbon. So let's go ahead
and show the result of our acid-base reaction. So we have our ring. We still have our leaving
group for the moment. And now we have a negative 1
formal charge on this carbon. So we form a carbanion. Let me go ahead and
highlight these electrons. So these electrons in here
are now on this carbon, forming a carbanion that's
ortho to our leaving group-- so an ortho carbanion. So when these electrons
in magenta move into here, that allows these electrons
to kick off onto our halogen, so it leaves as an anion. And we create what's called
the benzine molecule-- so a triple bond in
our molecule like that. And so these
electrons in magenta have moved in here to
form a triple bond. This is a little bit different
from usual triple bonds. This happens to be an
unstable intermediate. So this benzine molecule
turns out to be very reactive. And so in the next step-- we'll
call this the addition portion of our mechanism-- our benzine
molecule is right here. And it's going to react
with amide, the amide anion. But this time,
the anion is going to function as a nucleophile. And so when I go ahead and
show my amide anion like that, I'm going to show it functioning
as nucleophile attacking our triple bonds--so
attacking one of the carbons. So I'm going to say
on that side, which would push these electrons
back onto this carbon. And so we can go
ahead and show that. So we have our ring. Right now, we have our
NH2 attached to our ring. And we have these electrons
move out onto here, onto this carbon. So once again, the
electrons in magenta have moved out here to
form a carbanion-- again, an ortho carbanion. Our last step would be
to protonate our ring. And so we have ammonia. Ammonia comes along. That's going to function as
an acid and donate a proton. So these electrons
in magenta are going to pick up a proton here,
leaving these electrons behind. And we protonate our ring and
we're done with our mechanism. We have formed aniline as
our product, like that. All right. So that's the mechanism
for elimination-addition. Let's see if we can go ahead
and do a practice problem here. And here we have a
disubstituted ring. And our two substituents
are para to each other. So we're going to add our strong
base-- so sodium amide, so negative 1 formal charge here. First step is elimination. So the first up is an
acid-base reaction, where the amide takes a proton
that's next to our halogen. And so we have two choices here. We could take this proton
that's next to our halogen or we could take this proton
that's next to our halogen. In this case, it doesn't matter,
because they are equivalents, pretty much the
same thing, if you think about the symmetry
of the molecule. And so this is going
to take this proton, to make our lives easier here. And then these electrons would
remain behind on this carbon. So let's go ahead and show
our acid-base reaction here. So we have our ring. We have our methyl
group here on our ring. We have our halogen
here on our ring. And now we have a negative 1
formal charge on this carbon. So we have electrons
on that carbon, negative 1 formal charge. These are going to move into
here to form a triple bond, and these electrons kick
off onto our leaving group. So the chloride anion
leaves and we form benzine. So we form our
benzine intermediate. And so I can go ahead
and show that right here. So there's benzine. There's still a methyl
group attached to our ring. Now once again, I chose to
show this proton participating in the acid-base reaction. It could have been in this
one, but it's just helpful the way I drew my benzene ring. I happen to show my
pi bond right here, and so it's easier
to show it there. But you only get one
benzine intermediate here. And so here is our
benzine intermediate, which next is going to react
with the amide anion, which is now going to function
as a nucleophile. So I have a negative 1
formal charge on my nitrogen. And it's going to
function as a nucleophile. And it could attack either
side of that triple bond. I'm going to go ahead
and show it attacking this side of our triple bond. And so these electrons
would come off onto there. So let's go ahead and
show the results of that. And so I have my ring. And I'm going to add on my NH2
to this top carbon this time. And my electrons went off
over here onto to this carbon. So I still have a
methyl group, like that. Now, I could have
showed the amide anion attacking the other
side of the triple bond. That's possible, too. So I could have thought about
my nucleophile attacking over here, which would push these
electrons off onto that carbon. So let's go ahead and show
that possibility as well. So once again, we have our ring. So we have these
electrons on our ring. We have our methyl group. This time, the NH2 added
onto the right side of where our triple
bond used to be. And these electrons
ended up over here. And so of course,
the final step, which I won't show
the mechanism for, we just need to
protonate that anion. And we end up with our
two final products. And so let me go
ahead and draw those. So we have our two groups,
and in our top example, they are para to each other. And then our other products,
our two groups on our ring, are meta to each other. And so you get a mixture
of products here. So thinking about your
benzine mechanism. So let's look at one more type
of elimination of a reaction using the benzine mechanism. So another famous one. And you can see this time,
instead of using sodium amide, we're using sodium hydroxide. But we know that this
is a strong base, and so that will work. You have to heat it up a lot
and add some water, some proton sources. And you can see that,
eventually, you're going to get an OH
group substituting in for your halogen. So this is a very
famous reaction. Let's see if we can do
this problem down here, where we have a methyl
group on our ring and we have our
chlorine like that. So this is a little different
from the one that we just did. So these two are
meta to each other, and those other ones were para. So once again, we're going to
think about the hydroxide anion functioning as a strong base. And it's going to take a
proton off of our ring. Remember, it's going
to take a proton off next to our leaving group. And so it could take a
proton off from here, or it could take a
proton off from here. And those are two different
positions this time. So we're going to get different
benzine intermediates. So we need to think about
two different benzines. So that's different from
the previous example. We only had to think
about one enzyme. So first I'm going to think
about the proton on the right. So if this proton leaves, you
can think about these electrons in here moving in to
form your triple bond. So let's go ahead and
draw that one first. So the elimination
of your halogen would give you your
benzine intermediate and your benzine intermediate
would look like this, with your methyl group
being right here. And so that's one possible
benzine intermediate. Of course, we could have
taken off this proton-- so sodium hydroxide, could've
taken off that proton. And your halogen could've
left in the elimination step to form another benzine. And this time, it would
be between this hydrogen and the chlorine. So it would be over here. So benzine would have
to be over on that side. And so we could go ahead and
draw our benzine like that. Now, notice I'm showing
a different resonance form of the pi
electrons in the ring. But we know that that's OK. I just happened to start
out with my pi electrons in my benzene ring like this. But I could have
just as easily have started out the opposite way. So what I drew here
is not incorrect. It's just a different
way of showing it. And it's necessary
for us to show the benzine
intermediate this way. And so now we have two
benzine intermediates. And in the next
step, hydroxide would function as a nucleophile, and
it could attack either side. So let's go ahead and think
about the hydroxide anion functioning as a nucleophile. And let's go ahead and
draw the possible products. I could think about
hydroxide attacking this side of the triple
bond, in which case our final product
would look like this. We would have our ring. We would have our
methyl group here. And then we would
have our OH group para to that methyl group. So that's one of our
possible products. So let me go ahead and
use a different color so we can see that better. So a nucleophilic attack here
would give us this product, nucleophilic attack here would
give us a different product. So let's go ahead and draw that. We would show our ring, and we
would show our pi electrons. We'd show our OH adding here. And we would still
have this methyl group. And so you can see these
are different products. So we have two different
products so far. And once again, we could
go over to this molecule, and we could show
the same thing. We show hydroxide attacking the
left side of our triple bond. So let's go ahead and
draw that product. So if hydroxide
attacked the left side, it would add on to
the left side of where our triple bond used to be. And now we would
have this product. So that's another
possible product. And now, of course,
we could have attacked on the right side of
our triple bond for this one. So let's go ahead and draw
the fourth possibility here. And so now we have
our benzene ring. We have our OH group
added onto here. And then we have a
methyl group right here. And so if you look
at it, you can see that these two are
actually the same molecule, because these benzene rings--
I've just drawn the pi electrons in different
places, but we know that those are just
resonance structures of each other. And so we get a total of three
products for this reaction. So this would just
be one molecule, and then this would be two,
and then this would be three. So this would be my
approach to answering this question on an exam. You don't have time to draw
out the full mechanism, so think about
eliminating your halogen to form the benzine
intermediate. Think about how many benzine
intermediates are possible. And then, finally, think
about adding the nucleophile to either side of
your triple bond, and that will give you
your possible products for your answer.