In this video,
we're going to look at the general mechanism
for the Birch reduction. So we start with
benzene and to it we add an alkaline metal
like sodium and liquid ammonia and also an
alcohol, and the end result is to reduce the benzene ring
to form 1, 4-cyclohexadiene. Let's look at the mechanism
for the Birch reduction. So we know that sodium is in
group one of the periodic table and so it has one valence
electron, which I will go ahead and color magenta there. And so the start
of the mechanism is for sodium to donate
its one valence electron to the benzene
ring, and so we can show the movement
of that one electron with a fish hook arrow
or a half-headed arrow here where we show that one
electron moving over here to this carbon, so
this carbon right here. Now, we're also going to get
some movement of electrons in our benzene ring. So when I think about
these electrons in here, so these pi electrons
in red, we know that there are two
electrons there. So let me go ahead and show
those two electrons like that. So those two electrons
are also going to move. So this electron
over here is going to come off on this
carbon as well, and then this other
electron in red is going to move over to here. So let's go ahead
and show the start of the movement of
those electrons. We're going to come
back and move some more, but I just want
to do this really slowly here so we
can follow along. So we had our hydrogens attached
to our rings so let me go ahead and sketch those in
really fast here. So these pi electrons are going
to stay put for our mechanism. And let me show the
electron in magenta, the one that sodium donated,
so it ends up being on this carbon right here. And then one of the
electrons in red also moved on to that carbon. So let me show that
electron in red right there. So that carbon gets a
negative 1 formal charge so we form an anion here. One of those red
electrons is going to move over to this
position right here, and then we are also going to
show these electrons moving around, so the
electrons in green here. Let me just go ahead
and highlight those. So these electrons, so
there's one and there's two. So one of them is going to
move to the same position that the red one did in
there, and the other one is going to come off
onto this carbon. So let me see if
I can show that. So one of them moved
in here like that, and the other one moved off
onto this carbon like that. So the one in red
and the one in green are, of course, now a pi bond. You could think
about it that way, and so we've now
generated what's called a radical anion here. So this is a radical anion. So it's a radical because you
have that one unpaired electron in green, and it's an anion
since you have a negative 1 formal charge over here
on this topic carbon. And then I forgot to put
in this hydrogen so let me go ahead and add that
one in there like that. Second step of our
mechanism, our alcohol comes along so we have
our generic alcohol, which is going to function as an
acid because the negative 1 formal charge, the anion
here, the carbanion, is going to function as a base. And so these electrons
here are going to pick up a proton
from the alcohol so these electrons will kick
off onto the oxygen here. And so let's go ahead and draw
the result of that acid base reaction. So we have these pi
electrons in here, and we now have two
hydrogens on that top carbon. We have one hydrogen on each
of our other carbons here. And we still have a radical. So let me go ahead and
show this electron is still on that carbon. So now we have a radical
instead of a radical anion. And I should point out
that for our radical anion and for our radical,
the electron density can be delocalized
throughout the ring, but here we're just
trying to show just moving around some electrons. And so let me go
ahead and highlight to these two electrons here. So the electron in red and
the electron in magenta are forming a bond with that
proton right here on our ring. So next step in our mechanism,
we get some more sodium so some more sodium
comes along here. Let me go ahead and show that. And, of course,
once again, sodium has one valence electron so
here's sodium's one valence electron. The sodium can donate
that valence electron to our benzene ring, and so
it's going to donate it over here to this carbon,
the carbon that had the green electron
on it already. And so let's go ahead and
show the result of that. We would have our ring, we
would have our pi electrons. We had two hydrogens
bonded to the top carbon. We had these hydrogens
around my ring like that. The bottom carbon still has
a hydrogen bonded to it. And we started with a green
electron on that carbon, and now we're going to
add a magenta electron, giving that carbon a
negative 1 formal charge so we form an anion again. So now that we have an anion,
the last step of the mechanism is another acid base reaction
so our alcohol comes along, and the carbanion is going
to function as a base and pick up a proton
from our alcohol. So the same step that we
saw before pretty much. And we go ahead and
draw our final product. So we have those pi electrons. We had these hydrogens
on our top carbon, these carbons all get
hydrogens, and then finally, we have added on a
proton to this bottom carbon here. So let me go ahead
and highlight those. So these electrons here, those
two electrons pick up a proton so we protonate our
ring and we finish. So this is our 1, 4
cycylohexadiene product here. Now, a simple way of
thinking about this mechanism for the Birch reduction is to
break it into these four steps and to make those
steps very simple. So in the first step, sodium is
donating electrons an electron so you could think
electron for step one. Second step, we know that the
anion is picking up a proton from our alcohol so
you could think proton for the second step. For the third step,
once again, sodium is going to donate an electron
so you could think electron. And then finally,
once again the, anion is picking up a proton so
you could think proton. So you could think electron,
proton, electron, and proton is a simple way of thinking
about the steps for a Birch reduction. In the next video,
we're going to look at what happens with
the Birch reduction when you get a
substituted benzene ring. And I'll show you mechanisms
for the two possibilities that you might see on an exam.