Hi. I'm John Green. This is
Crash Course Big History, and today we're gonna talk
about the anthropocene. Mr. Green, Mr. Green,
anthropocene? What does that even mean? That sounds like gibberish. No, me from the past, your tenth-grade essays
were gibberish. The anthropocene
is a word derived from the Greek word for human. Like, you know how
anthropologists study humans? Well, the anthropocene
is an unofficial geologic era where humans have an immense
influence over the biosphere. But I want to emphasize
that it is unofficial, because geologists are
a vicious and terrifying bunch. And the word is not official
until they say it's official. But even if it's not yet a word, the underlying concept
is very useful. So, due to the intensification
of collective learning, and the continued rise of complexity
we've been talking about, you could argue that more change
has happened in the past century than in the previous, like,
250,000 years of human history. And it's all roughly
within living memory. You, your parents
and your grandparents have lived in one
of the most complex and interesting times ever. So, since 1800, we've had
a Cambrian explosion of innovation and discovery. Like, in the last
few years alone, we've discovered
a fundamental particle that weaves together
the fabric of the universe, the Higgs boson. We discovered
the largest ever black hole, which is about 17 billion times
the mass of our sun. We found preserved
woolly mammoth blood. We even have electric cars that
go more than 125 miles per hour. Although you should drive them
more slowly, obviously. We've grown to a population
of seven billion people. And your phone has more
computing power than all of NASA did when they
sent men to the moon in 1969. And collective learning
is increasing exponentially. Here is Emily Graslie
fromThe Brain Scoop to help us understand the scale
of that growth of knowledge. As human populations grow
exponentially, collective learning is
undergoing a snowball effect. In humanity's first
250,000 years as foragers, about nine billion people
lived and died. Thanks to agriculture,
in the last thousand years, about 55 billion people
have lived and died. And seven billion
of them are around now. This is great
for rising complexity. We now live in a unified global
network of billions of brains. Communication
is almost instantaneous. And we harness the power
of the Earth and sun on a massive scale. The potential for new
breakthroughs in technology or in our understanding
of the cosmos is heightened by all of this. It's all part
of the continuous rise in complexity in big history. A trend that has been proceeding
for over 13.8 billions years. From gas clouds to stars,
to single-celled organisms, to trilobites, to dinosaurs,
to culture. The beginnings of the
anthropocene weren't all sunshine and daisies,
however. The late 19th century
was marked by an increase in the destructiveness
of weaponry. A number of colonial empires
covered the entire Earth with the exception
of a few non-European states which managed to maintain
their independence. And mounting nationalism
and bigotry led to some terrible chaos
in the early 20th century. World War I killed
15 million people. The Spanish flu
which followed it and spread largely as a result
of the unified global system that had previously been so
valuable to collective learning killed off three times as many. And 50 million people were
killed during World War II. Such is the devastating cost of increased innovation
and connectivity. Following World War II,
a new wave of industrialization
entered East Asia, Central and South America,
the Middle East and other areas. Newly developed crops, especially strains
of wheat and rice, helped places
like India and China which, in the mid-20th century,
still suffered famines. Their populations exploded,
for better or worse. And we harnessed
the power of atomic fission, putting immense power
in the hands of humans to be used for good or ill. It's the threat
of nuclear holocaust combined with the possibility
of an asteroid impact or supervolcanic eruption that make scientists
like Stephen Hawking encourage the colonization
of the solar system to increase the chances
of our species surviving. Coping with scarcity
is the bottom line of much of organic history,
encompassing all species-- including humans. So, for most of human history,
the world was separated into four isolated zones. The agrarian communities
within those zones were largely subdivided
into separate social orders and classes
and varying degrees of wealth. And the number of the wealthy
landed gentry and aristocrats in the average agrarian
civilization, whether it was Mughal India
or Louis XIV's France, was between ten and 20 percent
of the total population. So, at most, 20%
of people were not poor. Today, in a united
global system-- I mean, except for North Korea-- if you earn more than
roughly $20,000 per year, as most working adults
in the developed world do, you are in the top 20%
of the world's richest people. You are part
of the global aristocracy. But I should note that a couple
things definitely have changed. For one thing, if you're part
of the global aristocracy, you are enjoying
a standard of living better than what kings had
only a couple centuries ago. You probably have
a refrigerator. You flip a switch,
and the lights come on. You have antibiotics,
at least for a few more years. I mean, admittedly,
Netflix doesn't have any of the good movies,
but that's still a better entertainment option
than what Louis XIV had. All he had was
public executions. And hopefully the average person
in the developed world today is a little more enlightened
about the challenges of poverty than an 18th-century aristocrat
would have been, but the jury is still out
on that one. I mean, that's why "First-World
Problems" is a meme, right? But how we behave
toward the developing world in the next 100 years
will determine much of how we are viewed
not only by them but by the thousands of future
generations that come after us and read of our deeds
in history. So, is human history
a story of progress where life has become better
for most people over the course
of 250,000 years? And will life continue
to get better for most people
during the anthropocene? We're gonna try to answer that
by looking at the anthropocene in light and shade, which is basically just
a list of pros and cons. Pro: Since 1970,
manufacturing jobs have lifted approximately 600 million people
out of poverty. Modern technologies can now feed
and clothe more humans than ever before. Con: More people
in the developing world are forced from traditional
ways of life and into factory jobs
with poor safety standards, long hours and measly wages. And a lot of the goods
that they produce go overseas to enhance the standard
of living of a prosperous
and wealthy developed world. And while the ratio of impoverished to wealthy
countries in 1820 was about 3:1, today, it's closer to 72:1. Standards of living may be
increasing on average, but the wealth inequality gap
is getting wider and wider. But pro: We have managed
to harness a lot of energy-- our use of coal and oil
and nuclear power. These energy flows
have allowed us to generate an astounding amount
of complexity in our little corner
of the universe and improve people's
standards of living. Yeah, but con: Current modes
of production rely heavily on nonrenewable resources that are not great
for the environment. Unless you've been hiding under
a rock for the past 20 years, you will probably have heard
of climate change and the potentially devastating
effects it will have. Furthermore,
as humanity continues to force the environment
to adapt to our needs, we are accelerating
the rate of extinction of plant and animal species that
don't happen to be useful to us. One of the reasons we call
this period the anthropocene is, if humanity were
to suddenly disappear and aliens were to land on Earth
500 million years later and start excavating,
even if they saw no sign of the humans
on the fossil record, they would see
a mass extinction event rivaling the five most
devastating mass extinctions in prehuman history. Pro: Collective
learning's advances in medicine, agriculture
and genetic engineering have, in the past 200 years,
lowered the death rate and freed billions
of people from the cycles of starvation and famine that
affected agrarian civilizations. Con: The tremendous expansion of
populations in India and China have created a severe problem
for the infrastructures of those countries. We now have seven billion
people on Earth, and we'll grow to
between 9.6 and 12 billion later in the century. Yet, at our current rates
of consumption and modes of production,
the world could only support a population of two
or three billion people who enjoy the same
standard of living as people
in the United States do. China's population may level off
by around 2050. India's might level off by 2070. But sub-Saharan Africa,
a region of the world that already suffers from
the highest levels of poverty and is least equipped to deal
with problems of overpopulation, is set to expand enormously,
even past the year 2100. Add to this the likelihood
that climate change will reduce the amount of arable cropland
on the earth by ten to 25 percent, and we may have a severe
population problem on our hands. And as we can see
from the population cycles of the agrarian period, overpopulation tends
to spark more violence. Pro: In the long term, development of a country's
economy tends to change demographic trends. While an agrarian civilization
benefited greatly from a farmer having
half a dozen kids, first to combat the high
infant mortality rate, and second because
by the time they were 12, they could help out at the farm, today, kids take
18 to 22 years to educate. And they're expensive. Also adults end up having other
opportunities opened to them. Fewer kids, more hours on the
Xbox or pursuing a law degree or a high-flying
business career, whatever. Economic development
can slow population growth. In many of the developed regions
of the world, populations are stabilizing,
which is why it is important to foster economic growth in
places like sub-Saharan Africa. Con: But what drives a lot
of that economic growth? Energy production. And developing countries
are more prone to use inexpensive, fast and
dirty forms of fuel to develop rather than more expensive
eco-friendly alternatives. This compounds
the environmental problem, which, in turn,
can mess up the environment and compound
the population problem. So, it turns out,
it's complicated, and we are
a little bit ambivalent about the anthropocene. In the next century, humanity's
population growth will continue, but it'll hopefully level off between ten
and 12 billion people due to declining birth rates. If it doesn't,
we might be in trouble. Well, we'll definitely be
in trouble at some point. We just don't know when. But even if it does level off,
we've still got problems concerning how to support
all those people at a decent standard of living and how to find the energy
to fuel that process. I mean, we're talking about between ten
and 12 billion people. The first time
the world's population got to one billion humans
was 1804. So, right now,
we're still heavily dependent on nonrenewable fossil fuels. Well, technically,
they arerenewable, but you need, like,
100 million years. But there are a few possible
future scenarios. One: We are miraculously saved
by some technology, in the same way
that the industrial revolution lifted humanity out
of the recurring cycles of famine in the agrarian era. Two: We collapse miserably
into ruins and ashes. I don't like two, Stan.
Is there an option three? Oh, there is-- that's good news. Three: We can guide
human society into a "creative descent," a gentle decline of complexity to more simple
subsistence living. Actually, you know what, I'm
not crazy about three, either. I am all for one. Now, at present, we don't know
what scenario will play out. We're acting as if we will
be saved by some technology, and, in fact,
that's the only way that leads to the continuing rise
of complexity. But we can't just assume
that will happen. Now, as for the potential
dangers of the 21st century, there are environmental
disasters, the rise of a superbug
that wipes out millions upon millions
of people, possible global conflict
or a rise in instability. The next 50 years will be
fraught with a lot of risk. But if we can somehow make it
through what some call the 21st-century bottleneck, things start to brighten again. We'll be a stable population of ten to 12 billion
increasingly well-educated and interconnected innovators, and that's great for collective
learning in the 21st century. Who knows where such massive
potential could lead? It's important to remember
that while there are seven billion people
in the world right now, many of them don't have access
to good education. And that limits
their innovative potential. If, in the future,
we see less poverty, as we've seen
in the last 20 years, and more access to education, I'm kind of hopeful. As far as we know,
we are unique in the universe. And if for nothing else, it is our duty
to our own innate curiosity to survive and to see where
this rising complexity leads. Our task as a species in
this century is to survive it. If we can just manage that, from the end
of the 21st century, the universe may take us in a
thousand astonishing directions. More on that next time.