(swing piano music) - [Male Narrator] The
narrative cycle begins on the right altar side
in the top register. It introduces Joachim and Anna,
the grandparents of Christ. - [Female Narrator] Mary's parents. - [Male Narrator] Joachim begins by being thrown out of the temple. - [Female Narrator] For his childlessness. - [Male Narrator] He's
grown old without children. Don't take this too literally,
it's not in the Bible. These are the extra stories that were added to the biblical narrative because people wanted to know what happened in between the events that really are mentioned in the Bible. - [Female Narrator] Much
of this is from a book called the "Golden Legend"
that filled in that narrative. - [Male Narrator] Let's focus on the last scene of the upper register, which is The Meeting at the Golden Gate. To get here, what's happened is that Joachim has prayed to God
really wanting a child. Anna, his wife, has done the same, and they've both been visited and been told that there is hope. Joachim is shown in the wilderness with his sheep, he's a shepherd. Anna is shown at home. And they're shown coming
together for the first time in front of Jerusalem, in
front of the golden gate. - [Female Narrator] Each
now with the awareness that their desire for a
child has been fulfilled. - [Male Narrator] We see
their faces together. It is a kiss, it is incredibly intimate. It's so personal, their
faces come together, they touch and almost
become a single face. - [Female Narrator] We sense
the warmth of their embrace, the warmth of the figures
around them who watch, and figures who have mass
and volume to their bodies, who exist three-dimensionally in space. Gone are the elongated, swaying, ethereal bodies of the Gothic period. And Giotto gives us figures
that are bulky and monumental, where drapery pulls around their bodies. And taken together with
the emotion in their faces, it's almost like we have
real human beings in art for the first time in
more than 1,000 years. - [Male Narrator] Giotto, we
think, was Cimabue's student, and learned from that great master who had begun to experiment
with the chiaroscuro, this light and shadow, this ability to model
volume and form and mass, but nothing like what
Giotto has achieved here. It is the coming together
of both the chiaroscuro, as well as the emotion, as
well as the human interaction that creates the sense of the importance of our existence here on Earth. - [Female Narrator] And I would also add the clarity of the
gestures, and the narrative. - [Male Narrator] Look at the way in which the city is not rendered
in an accurate way. We have a schematic view, and
yet it's everything we need. We have the gate of Jerusalem. Now, of course, Giotto had no idea what the architecture of
Jerusalem looked like. Yet, from legend, he has
created this golden arch and this medieval-looking fortified city. - [Female Narrator] But
the forms are simplified. - [Male Narrator] It's a stage set, and he wants those figures
to be front and center. They are what's most important. If we move across to the other wall, the upper register
continues the narrative. Mary is born, she's presented
in the temple, she's married, and then we get back to the
altar side of the chapel, and there we reach the triumphal arch. And we're back to God the father now, but below that we have the Annunciation. - [Female Narrator] In
the register below, now, we see scenes from Christ's
childhood, including... - [Male Narrator] The Circumcision,
the Flight into Egypt. - [Female Narrator] The
Massacre of the Innocents. And then moving to the next
wall, we begin the story of the ministry of
Christ and his miracles. - [Male Narrator] We have Christ preaching to the doctors
in the temple, the Baptism, and one of my favorites,
The Raising of Lazarus. - [Female Narrator] And then the entry of Christ into Jerusalem. - [Male Narrator] As the story
unfolds from scene to scene, Christ is often shown in profile, which is derived from the
Roman tradition of coinage, which is the most noble way
of representing a figure. And he's shown moving from left to right, which is the way that we're
meant to read the scenes. - [Female Narrator] So
Giotto is helping us to move through the narrative
from one scene to the next. And here we see Christ on a donkey with the apostles behind him. - [Male Narrator] You'll notice
that Giotto does not care to depict every single
one of the 12 apostles. He's really giving us
only three or four faces, and the rest are just like
an accumulation of halos. - [Female Narrator] There's that legacy of symbolic representation that we think of as more medieval. - [Male Narrator] Symbolic representation is also clearly evident in the way that the gate of the city of
Jerusalem is shown once again. We last saw it with the kiss
in front of the golden gate, and now we see Christ entering. And so there's a continuity. Look at the way in which the
figures in the lower right begin to pull off their outer garment. One man is pulling his
arm out of his sleeve, the next is taking the
garment off his head, and the final one is placing that garment at the feet of the donkey
in an act of respect. But it is almost cinemagraphic, that is, part of the chapel as a whole
is about the movement of time. This is one of the most innovative aspects of the entire chapel, I think. - [Female Narrator] We also
have a sense of the figures pouring out of the gate of
the city, welcoming Christ, and a real humanity to their
excitement at seeing Christ. - [Male Narrator] If you look at Christ, there is a blue garment that's
wrapped around his waist, but the blue is almost entirely missing, and that's because the Arena Chapel is painted in buon fresco, true fresco, that is, pigment is
applied to wet plaster. - [Female Narrator] And when that happens, the pigment binds to the plaster, and the paint becomes
literally part of the wall. - [Male Narrator] That's
right, the wall is stained. The problem is that blue
was really expensive. Ultramarine blue came from lapis lazuli, which was a very expensive
semi-precious stone. And Enrico Scrovegni, when he drew up the contract with Giotto, did not want the blue's brilliance to be diminished by being
mixed with the plaster. So he asked that it be
applied as secco fresco. - [Female Narrator] Dry fresco. - [Male Narrator] On top of the wall. - [Female Narrator] It
didn't adhere to the wall as well as the paint that was
applied to the wet plaster. And so sadly, that's been flaked off, and we have to use our imagination to fill in a brilliant
blue on that drapery. - [Male Narrator] Let's move on to the bottom register, to
the end of Christ's life. On the lowest register,
the register that's devoted to the scenes of the Passion, is the Arrest of Christ, also
known as the Kiss of Judas. - [Female Narrator] So this is the moment when Judas leads the Romans to Christ, and they arrest him, and take him away, and torture him, and
ultimately crucify him. Judas is one of the 12 apostles, one of those considered closest to Christ. He betrays him for 30 pieces of silver. - [Male Narrator] And so it
is all the more horrific, a terrible betrayal, because this is one of the
people that Christ trusted most. And Judas has betrayed Christ, not by pointing at him
from afar, but with a kiss. The embrace is really important. Look at the way that Giotto has the figure of Judas' arm and cloak wrapping around him, embracing him, enveloping him, and
importantly, stopping him. Remember that, in almost every scene, we have noticed Christ moving
from left to right in profile. But here, Judas is an impediment. His progress is stopped. This is literally arresting
his movement forward. - [Female Narrator] If we compare this, for example, to Duccio's
"Betrayal of Christ," there, Christ is frontal. Here, he's in profile. It makes it so that Judas and
Christ look at one another, look at each other in the eye. Judas is a little bit shorter,
he looks up at Christ, there's a sense of, to me, determination, but also maybe a hint of beginning to be sorry
for what he's done. - [Male Narrator] But still
corruption in that face versus the nobility of Christ's features. - [Female Narrator] And
a sense that Christ knew that this would happen, right? At the Last Supper he said,
"One of you will betray me." And an acceptance of his destiny that we often see in images of Christ. There's also chaos here. - [Male Narrator] Giotto has
created this sense of violence by reserving half the painting, the sky, just for those lances, torches, clubs, and the way in which they're
not held in an orderly way, but they are helter-skelter,
crossing at angles. They create this violent visual rhythm that draws our eye down
to Christ, down to Judas, but also feel dangerous. - [Female Narrator] But there's a sense of Judas and Christ anchoring
the composition down as that chaos takes place around him. The most remarkable figure to me, though, is the figure in that pale purple who leans his left side
of his body and his elbow out of the composition
almost right into our space. - [Male Narrator] It's amazing, and it almost prefigures
the way that Caravaggio, who centuries later will master this idea of breaking the picture plane. - [Female Narrator] And then
we also see another device that Giotto employees
often in the Arena Chapel, and that is a figure with his back to us. And that figure seems
to be pulling something that's out of the space of the panel. But look at his feet, perfectly
foreshortened, grounded, there's that sense of Giottoesque weight and monumentality to the
figures, all of that modeling as we can follow the forms
of the body underneath. - [Male Narrator] And Giotto is giving us this full sensory experience. We have this crowd of figures,
the sense of violence. The crowd has multiplied because we can see numerous helmets, which by the way would have
originally been silver, but have oxidized. - [Female Narrator] And there's a sense of a crowd pressing in, of all these faces watching
what's going to happen. - [Male Narrator] And there's one man blowing on a horn, creating
this sense of energy, this audio that goes with this painting that finishes the whole scene, and it's chaos, and it's
anger, and it's drama. - [Female Narrator] Giotto
is a master of the dramatic. (swing piano music)