NARRATOR:
Right after the Big Bang, our young Universe was what scientists
call a plasma. This was basically
an incredibly hot mush of charged particles without
much structural complexity. About 380,000 years later,
things began to change. By then, temperatures
had fallen low enough for protons, which
have positive charges, to link up with electrons,
which have negative charges. And together, they formed
electrically neutral atoms, very simple ones like
hydrogen, some helium, and a few slightly heavier atoms
thrown in for good measure. The Universe now contained
vast clouds of these atoms. Add gravity and now
you have the ingredients for our second threshold,
the formation of stars. Here's what happened next. Wherever there was
slightly more matter, gravity is more powerful. So, tiny variations
in the density of matter became the first
Goldilocks condition for this second threshold. Gravity packed
slightly denser regions ever closer together,
squashing them so tightly that they began to heat up. This growing pressure and heat created our second
Goldilocks condition. Eventually,
the clouds got so hot, the protons and electrons
split apart once more, recreating a plasma. And when temperatures in
these hot spots got to about 10 million degrees Celsius,
protons began to fuse together and part of them turned into
energy as they did so. This huge release of heat from the center
of each cloud of matter stopped the cloud from
collapsing any further. And this is how the
first stars lit up. Soon, the Universe
had billions of hot spots pouring energy into
the cold of deep space. Each star would
continue releasing energy into space for millions
or even billions of years until it had
no more protons to fuse. And as these stars
formed, so did galaxies, each containing
billions of stars. Galaxies in turn grouped together
into huge clusters and chains of galaxies, the largest structures
in the Universe. Suddenly, the Universe seemed
to have a lot more variety and a lot more structure. Now, what new
things could happen in a Universe filled with stars?