Here's the general reaction
for a hydrohalogenation. You have an alkene,
and you react that with a hydrogen halide. And the hydrogen adds to
one set of your double bond, and the halogen adds to the
other set of your double bond. Let's look at the mechanism
for this reaction. So here we have our alkene
and our hydrogen halide. Think something like
hydrochloric acid. So a strong acid donates
protons in solution. So the hydrogen halide's
going to function as an acid. The alkene's going to
function as a base. The electrons in
this pi bond here are going to take this
proton and leave these two electrons behind
on your halogen. So let's go ahead
and draw the results of that acid-base reaction. So I'm going to say the proton
adds to the carbon on the left. And the carbon on
the right over here used to have four bonds to it. Now it has only
three bonds to it, which means it's positively
charged and is a carbocation. So it wants electrons. It wants to get an
octet of electrons. So it loves electrons. It's an electrophile. We have our halogen
over here, which had three lone
pairs of electrons. It got one more lone pair for
a total of eight electrons around it, which gives it a
negative 1 formal charge, which means that it likes nuclei. It is a nucleophile. So our nucleophile is going
to attack our electrophile like that and form a
new bond to give us our alkyl halide as our product. Let's follow some
of these electrons through our mechanism. So the electrons in
this pi bond here, these are the same
electrons that form this bond right
here with the proton. And let's follow these
electrons in here. So the electrons in
here are the ones that ended up on our halogen. And I happened to choose
these very same electrons to form the bonds between
the carbon and the halogen like that. So make sure to be able to
follow electrons in mechanisms. Let's look at an actual problem,
and let's follow the mechanism through. So let's look at
this reaction here. This is my alkene. And I'm going to react this
alkene with hydrochloric acid. First step of the mechanism--
the pi electrons function as a base and take
this proton here. Kick these electrons
off onto your chlorine. Now, we have a problem-- which
side do I add my proton to? I have two options. I could add the proton
to the top carbon. So let's go ahead and do that. Let's add the proton
to the top carbon there and see what we get. So if I add that proton there
to the top carbon-- here's my methyl group. Here is my proton that I added. Well, I just took a bond
away from this carbon. So this is where my
carbocation is going to be. What kind of
carbocation is that? That carbon is connected
to two other carbons. So that is, of course,
a secondary carbocation. Let's see what would
happen if I add the proton on to
the other carbon. So what would I get if I add
the proton on to that carbon right there? So my methyl group
is still here. I add my proton on to
that bottom carbon now. Now, this is my carbocation. That is my positively
charged carbon right there. What kind of
carbocation is that? Well, that positively charged
carbon is bonded to one, two, three other carbons. So this is actually a
tertiary carbocation. We know that a
tertiary carbocation is more stable than a
secondary carbocation. So the tertiary
carbocation is going to form faster than the
secondary carbocation. What happens in the second
step of the mechanism? Well, our chlorine ends up
being negatively charged. Right? It is going to function
as a nucleophile. This lone pair of electrons
is going to attack this carbon and form our product. All right. So let's go ahead and
draw our product here. Our product is going to
have a methyl group and then a chlorine attached
to that carbon. So the halogens adds to the
more substituted carbon. And this is called
Markovnikov's rule. So let's go ahead
and write that. See if we can spell Markovnikov. The halogen adds the
more substituted carbon. And the reason it does that is
because the more substituted carbon is the one
that was the more stable carbocation
in the mechanism. So let's do another
mechanism here. Whenever you have a
carbocation present, you could have rearrangement. So let's do one where
there's some rearrangement. So let's start out
with this as our alkene and react that with
hydrochloric acid once again. First steps-- pi electrons
function as a base. These electrons kick
off onto your chlorine. So which side do we
add the proton to? Right? We could add the proton to the
left side of the double bond. We could add the proton to the
right side of the double bond. Well, we know that
we want to form the most stable
carbocation that we can. So it makes sense
to add the proton to the right side
of the double bond right here because
that's going to give us this as a carbocation. What kind of
carbocation is that? So let's identify this
carbon as the one that has our positive charge. That carbon is bonded
to two other carbons. So it is a secondary
carbocation. If we had added on the
proton to the left side of the double bond, we would
have a primary carbocation here. So a secondary carbocation
is more stable. Can we form a
tertiary carbocation? Because we know
tertiary carbocations are even more stable than
secondary carbocations. And of course, we can. There's a hydrogen
attached to this carbon. And we saw-- in our earlier
video on carbocations and rearrangements-- we could
get a hydride shift here. All right. So the proton and
these two electrons here are hydride anion. And these two
electrons are going to move over here,
shift over one carbon, and form a new covalent bond. So what would we get if we get a
hydride shift in our mechanism? Well, now our hydride
has shifted over here to that carbon. This carbon no longer has
a positive charge on it. We took a bond away
from this carbon. So now, this is where
our positive charge is. So we have a carbocation. How would we classify
this carbocation? Well, one, two,
three other carbons. So it's tertiary. It's more stable than our
secondary carbocation. So in the final step
of our mechanism, we had our chloride
anion over here from the first step
of our mechanism. So a chloride anion, negatively
charged nucleophile file. So a nucleophilic attack
on our carbocation. So right there. And we're going to form a
bond between that halogen and that carbon. So our final product
is going to end up with our cyclohexane ring. Let's do another one. So we have our cyclohexane
ring like that. And then, we have our ethyl
group attached to this carbon. And then, our chlorine
attached to that carbon. Like that. So that's going to
be our major product. All right. Let's look at the
stereochemistry of this reaction really fast. So let's look at what
happens if we react this alkene with
hydrochloric acid. So what will we get it? All right. First step-- pi electrons
take the proton. Kick the electrons
off onto the chlorine. So once again, which side
do we add our proton? So two possibilities. I could add to the left
side of the double bond or add to the right
side of the double bond. It makes sense to add it to the
right side of the double bond because that gives us a
more stable carbocation. So if I add it to the right
side of the double bond, this carbon ends up
being positively charged. What kind of a
carbocation is that? That carbon is bonded
to two other carbons. So it's a secondary
carbocation here. All right. So we have a
secondary carbocation. There's no kind of rearrangement
that we could get here to get a tertiary carbocation. So a secondary carbocation is
as stable as we're going to get. Now, carbocations are
carbons with three bonds to them, meeting that
carbon is sp2 hybridized. So let's redraw this
carbocation here. So I'm going to say that this
carbon right here represents my carbocation. What's bonded to it? Well, on the left side, there is
an ethyl group-- CH2, CH3 right here. And I know that there's a
methyl group bonded to it. I'm going to put the methyl
group going back in space here. And then there's also a hydrogen
attached to that carbon. We just didn't draw it
in on our carbocation. So like this. I know this carbon
is sp2 hybridized, meaning there's an
untouched, unhybridized p orbital on this carbon. All right. So let me draw my p
orbital in there like that. And let me go
ahead and make sure that everyone realizes
this is my carbocation. So sp2 hybridized
carbon means the atoms bonded to that sp2 hybridized
carbon are in the same plane. We could think about
our carbocation being flat because of
the trigonal planar geometry like that. So when our chloride
anion comes along, it sees a flat sp2
carbocation here. So it's negatively charged. So when that chloride
anion nucleophilic attacks our carbocation,
it has two options. It could attack from
the top of that plane. So let's go ahead
and draw the product that would result if it attacked
from the top of that plane. So let's see what
we'd have here. We would have our
carbon form the new bond with our chlorine like that. And then we have a CH2, CH3
over here on the left side. And we have a hydrogen
coming out at us. And we have a methyl
group going away from us. So that's one possibility. And what about if that chloride
anion attacked from the bottom? So that's a possibility as well. So since it's a plane-- a flat
sheet of paper-- 50% chance it attacks from the top, 50%
chance it attacks from below. So what would we get if
it attacks from below? Well, we would have
a carbon forming a bond with that
chlorine right here. And then we'd have an
ethyl group over here on the left side-- CH2, CH3. We have a hydrogen
coming out at us. And we would have a methyl group
going away from us like that. So if you look at
these products here, this is a chirality center. This carbon right here
has four different groups attached to it. It's sp3 hybridized. Same with this group. So these two are
actually mirror images of each other--
non-superimposable mirror images-- enantiomers
of each other. Let's see if we can draw them
in a dot structure that's more familiar to you here. So if you need a MolyMod
set, go ahead and take it out right now. And put your eye right here and
stare at your chirality center. So what enantiomer is
this one over here? Well, here is my
chirality center carbon. And if I were looking at
it from this vantage point, there'd be an ethyl group
here on the left-- CH2, CH3. On the right, there'd
be a methyl group. And this hydrogen would be
coming out at me in space. And the chlorine would be
going away from me in space. So that is the enantiomer
I'm looking at here. What about this one? So same thing. I put my eye right here. I stare at my chirality center. So here's my chirality center. I'd have an ethyl group
on the left, a methyl group on the right. This time, though, the chlorine
would be coming out at me. So the chlorine would be
coming out at me like that. And I'd get a racemic
mixture of my products. So be careful when you have
carbocations in your mechanism. Think about the fact that
they're trigonal planar. And think about to
does this reaction form any chirality centers? If it forms chirality
centers, you're going to get a racemic
mixture for your products.