So far most of what
we've been focused on has been Europe and some of
you all have argued that, "Hey, why is this called
World War I? It should be called Europe War I." In reality, especially because the
major European powers had these empires throughout the globe, it really was a world
war. The most significant fronts were the Western
front and the Eastern front, but we have many, many, many other fronts, many other campaigns. A
lot of these helped shape the modern world,
especially the world of the twentieth century. You had
fronts, campaigns in Africa, between the various
colonies that the empires had in Africa. You had a
front here in the Caucasus between the Ottoman empire and Russia. You had Japan involved.
Japan, in World War I was on the side of the
allies. It wasn't one of the major actors in World
War I, but it helped provide naval support,
it helped against some of Germany's colonies in
the pacific and in China. What I really want to
focus on in this video is in some ways one of the
most interesting campaigns, or I guess several
campaigns of World War I, because it really helped shape the modern Middle East and a lot
of the way countries are shaped now and a lot of
the conflicts we now see in the Middle East to
some degree can be tied to what happened leading up to World War I and what happened after World War I. Just as a little bit
of context, this entire region right over here,
what we consider to be the Middle East now, especially Arabia, was nominally under Ottoman control. The Ottoman empire had
been losing power for centuries leading up to
the twentieth century, especially if you look
at the Arabian Peninsula. It wasn't direct Ottoman
control. It was very hard to control the
various Arab tribes there. Egypt by this point, as
we enter into World War I, in the late 1800s the
British occupied, began to occupy Egypt, essentially
took control of Egypt. As we enter into World
War I, Egypt is officially a protectorate of the British empire. Egypt is, for all purposes, it is British. Egypt is of huge
strategic interest at this point in time. In fact,
it continues to be of huge strategic interest because it has the Suez Canal. The Suez
Canal is right over here. It's a man-made canal,
made in 1869 by the French, and it connects the Mediterranean Sea with the Red Sea. To see its
importance, you just have to look at the map at a more global scale. It's the fastest way to
get from Europe by ship into the Red Sea and into the Arabian Sea and to India, which was
a significant part of the British empire there,
or to go further East, go into the Indian Ocean and
go to places further East. It was of huge, huge,
huge strategic interest. That lays the groundwork
for, essentially, the various campaigns. Oftentimes
they would be collectively called the Middle East
campaigns, or they're separated sometimes as the
Sinai and Palestine campaign and the Mesopotamia campaign. Mesopotamia, that's in modern-day Iraq. The Sinai Peninsula, that's
part of modern-day Egypt. Palestine in 1914, what was
then considered Palestine, is now part of Israel,
part of the West Bank, part of the Gaza Strip, part Lebanon. As we'll see, all of these
countries that we now recognize as different countries, Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, these were all kind of
carved and shaped by what happened during World War I and at the end of World War I. As we get to the beginning,
right at the outset in 1914, the British
land right over here at the southern end of Mesopotamia. Over the course of the war they just keep driving northward along the Tigris River. They keep driving northward and northward and northward. By the
end of the war, they've essentially captured
what you would consider most of modern-day
Iraq. For the most part, it was a very successful
campaign for the British, although they did have
some significant setbacks. In particular, at the end
of 1915 you have the British who are held up in Kut.
They were essentially sieged by the Ottoman
empire, 147 days siege. After the 147 days they had to surrender. They were starving in there.
They couldn't get supplies. They were dying of
sickness. This is actually a picture of an Indian soldier
after the siege of Kut, after they were taken
by the Ottomans after they surrendered. Even
though the Mesopotamian campaign was successful
for the British, the siege of Kut is recorded in
British military history, or global military history,
as one of the biggest humiliations for the
British army, where you had that many troops who had
to surrender. They were starving, literally, to
death. One thing I should point out: I'm going to be
talking about the allies, the British troops, but
in the Middle Eastern campaigns and the Sinai
and Palestinian campaign and in the Mesopotamian
campaign, Indian troops, which were part of the
British empire, played a significant factor,
especially in the Mesoptomian campaign, and so did the Australian and New Zealand troops. When
we talk about British troops, we're also talking
about all of the various nationalities that were
part of the British empire. By 1918, they were able
to capture much of what is now modern-day Iraq, or
much of I guess you could say Mesopotamia. On the other side of, I guess you could call it on the Egyptian side of the campaign, the
first few offensives were actually taken by the
Ottomans. They say, "Hey look, the British hold the Suez
Canal. If we could take back the Suez Canal, that would
be a pretty crippling blow for the British,
especially in their ability to get to the various
ports of their empire." So in 1915, you have
the Ottomans try to make an offensive to try to
capture the Suez Canal. It's repulsed. It fails.
They try again in 1916. That fails again. After
that, the British then take the offensive. Once
again, it's the British, but we're talking, they
have Egyptian troops, they have Arab troops;
well, Egyptians are Arabs. They have Australian troops with them. They have Indian troops with them. They start to make an
offensive. That offensive essentially continues
through the course of World War I. In 1915 they are
able to defend the Suez Canal. In 1916 they defend it
again. By 1917, they're making an offensive. After
several tries, they're able to take Gaza in 1917.
Then they're able to take Jerusalem, which was
kind of a major source of prestige. Obviously
Jerusalem has a thousands of years history of
various armies trying to take Jerusalem. Then they
continue on and as they saw that the end of the war
was imminent, especially as we get into 1918, the
British were, and the allies were, essentially on a land
grab. They knew that as soon as an armistice is
called, it's kind of your last chance to grab more
land, and then it goes to the bureaucrats to
start negotiating things. So in 1918 the British
are essentially on a land grab, especially the allies. They take Damascus. They
get all the way north to Aleppo. By the end
of 1918 you essentially have the end of the war.
You have an armistice at the end of October
with the Ottoman empire. We know that the Austro-Hungarians signed their armistice in early
November, and so do the Germans and World War I is over. Now, there's a bunch of
interesting things here and I'm kind of doing
a very broad survey of these campaigns. One is the famous movie Lawrence of Arabia. It
took place during these campaigns. This is a
picture of of T.E. Lawrence, who was many, many, many
things, but he was this interesting character
who helped the Arabs rise up against the Ottomans,
against the Turkish rule. He was heavily involved
in helping to coordinate the Arabs' uprising against the Ottomans. In this case, the Arabs
were helping the allies essentially push the Ottomans back. The most interesting
thing, the outcome of this, and we'll probably talk
into a lot more detail about this in future
videos, is because by the end of the war you have
the allies in control of all of this territory
... in control ... let me do that in a better color
... in control of all of this territory, right
over here, it was really left to them to carve up
the modern Middle East. It was agreed to ahead
of time that the French would gain control of what
is now Syria and Lebanon. This is roughly, Lebanon's
right over there. Syria, we're talking roughly this region, including Damascus, so
roughly this region right over here, and it left
the British in control of what is now Israel,
Palestine, Jordan and Iraq. As we'll see as we go
into the 1920s, this was all part of the British
mandate. They carved it up and a lot of their
decisions have led to a lot of what we now see
as the modern Middle East, and the French essentially
were in control up here in Lebanon and Syria as
part of the French mandate.