In this video, we're going to
connect our motor controller to our Arduino. We've run the wires from
the motor controller underneath the Arduino. We just need to figure out
which wires are which so we can determine what pins
to connect those wires to. So, we're setting our
multimeter to open, and this will allow us
to test for continuity. [BEEPING] So when you hear
the beep, it means that there's a continuous
electrical flow there, and it'll allow us to
identify which wire is which. So when we don't hear a beep,
it means it's not the same wire. [BEEPING] But when we do, that means
that wire is continuous. So we know which wire is which. So we can use our multimeter
to tell us which wire is which. So we're going to take that wire
there, which is our L1 wire, and we've already
created a list of where we want our pin outs to go. So our L1 wire, we're saying,
is going to go to pin D10. So when we create our
code on our computer, we'll use this list to tell
us which pin out is which in the code. And that'll help us
make sure that we get all of our functionality
all lined up correctly. OK, so we've got
our first one done, and now we need to move
on to the next one. We're going to use
our multimeter again. And so we're just
going to go to L2. And so we're going to
connect L2 to digital pin 8. And so we'll turn our multimeter
to open again, and we'll-- [BEEPING] OK, so we're going to go through
and take a look at where L2 is, see if we can figure
out which wire that is. [INTERMITTENT BEEPING] OK, so it's our second
wire down there. That's where L2 is. And we determined in our
list that we created, that L2 was going to be
a D8, digital pin eight. So we'll finish connecting
the rest of the wires using the same method, just
checking your continuity, and then connecting
them to the same pin out that is on our list. If you're going to use
the same code is as us, make sure that you
follow the same pin outs, and we'll post that online. The D9 pin out that's
listed in this list here was actually inaccurate,
so we crossed that out. Because we were using D9 as
you can see at the top there. In the next video,
we're going to show you how to wire up the camera
and the sound card.