I'm Henry Louis Gates Jr., and I'm a professor
at Harvard University. I first became interested
in the field of genetics when I was nine years old. And it was the day that
we buried my grandfather. And I was standing there
looking at his casket, trying to figure out
why he looked so white. And it turns out 40 years later, I got the answer through
the science of genetics. Scientists analyzed my
Y DNA, my Y chromosome. Remember, you have 23
chromosomes across your genome. And your Y DNA, if you're a man,
you inherit from your father. Y DNA is what makes a boy a boy
and makes a man a man and it's an identical genetic
signature or fingerprint. In analyzing my Y DNA,
they were able to say that my grandfather
looked like a white man because his
grandfather was white. My great-great-grandfather,
in other words, was an Irishman. That's right, I have something
called the O'Neill haplotype that I inherited from my father
who got it from his father and from his father. And our haplotype is shared
by eight percent of all the men in Ireland. An Irishman impregnated
my oldest black ancestor, Jane Gates,
and I am his descendent. And we also know that
through my mitochondrial DNA, which you-- everybody,
male and female, boy and girl-- which everybody inherits
from their mother. It too is an identical genetic
signature or fingerprint and it goes back thousands
and thousands of years. And we know that
I'm also descended from an Englishwoman
who was impregnated by a black man
sometime in slavery. And we know through a
third test, an admixture test, which measure... looks
across one million positions across your whole genome
and it tells you your percentages
of African ancestry, European ancestry, an Asian
or native American ancestry back for the last 500 years, back to the time
when Christopher Columbus encountered the new world
for the very first time. And we know that I am, surprise, surprise,
50 percent white and 50 percent black
through my admixture test. Well, genetics could not only
tell you your own family tree or personal history, genetics reveals the history
of the human species. 60,000 years ago, all of our ancestors, no matter
what you look like today-- whether you're Asian,
whether you're black, whether you're Latino, whether
you're white, European-- all of our ancestors
were black people living in East Africa. That is the genetic
Garden of Eden. You want to know where
the Garden of Eden was? It was in East Africa. The human community
evolved there. And for reasons
that we don't know, 60,000 years ago, some of them
decided to leave. Now, you all have families. You know why people
decide to leave. Probably two brothers
got in an argument or a brother and sister
got mad at each other. They said,
"Split time, I am out of here." And not only did they
leave whatever village they were living in,
but they walked out of Africa. They walked through
the Middle East, through India,
to Southeast Asia over a period of
thousands of years. 20,000 years later, the same
human community went north to what is now Europe
and to Southeast Asia, to mainland China,
for example, to Japan. 15,000 years ago,
the Ice Age came. So what did they do? They left the northern climes
and went south again. Once the Ice Age passed, they remigrated
around the world. Well, funny thing happens
when you live together-- people mate. And when you mate with people
that you can see, people in your genetic village, you share genetic mutations
which are passed down from father and mother to child. And so there are
communities of people who share genetic mutations
and we can now recreate the history of mankind
over the past 60,000 years from the time that first
group of human beings walked out of Africa through your DNA
by doing precisely the same kind of genetic
analysis of your haplogroups as scientists did to me to show that I'm descended
on my mother's side from an Englishwoman, and on my father's side
from an Irishman.