- [Voiceover] All right,
today we're gonna take a look at this DVD player. We're gonna see what's inside
it and what makes it work. There are several key components to this. We'll be looking at the power supply, the control board and the CD tray, as well as the laser itself
and the external housing. So let's go ahead and get started. This DVD player is actually very low cost. You can buy it for less than $30 and the way they've been
able to reduce the cost, part of it is that the
actual chips inside it needed to make it run have come down in price, and part of it is that
they've been able to simplify the components on the board tremendously. There we go. All right, you can take a
look at the insides there. This piece of metal is,
again, was just a flat sheet, was run through a press which created these tabs here and the tabs lock in the
housing under the front part. It also had these
indentations stamped in it so the screws would sit flush. And then the holes were punched
in it and it was folded. Okay, so you can see
inside the DVD player here. I do have it plugged in. Never safe to plug in an
electronic device when it is open. So, do not try this at home unless you have a professional with you. But I did want to show you
what happens when the DVD or the CD gets pulled into the player and kind of how it works. So what's gonna happen is
the tray's gonna come in, and you'll see this back
plate here lowered down to make room for that tray, and then you'll see it spool up. Then the laser will move
across, or, the laser assembly will start sliding across the DVD and you'll see that happen here. So, you can see the power's
on, the LED indicator's here. I'm gonna go ahead and close
the tray to bring it in and then press play, and you
can see it spool up there, and what's happening is power's being fed from this board here all the
way over to the control board and then the control board is
telling the motors what to do and gathering information from the laser. And then it's sending
it to these ports here, which go out to your TV
and show up as a signal. We're going to try and remove
the front panel of this unit. There we go. All right. So the front panel basically
is an injection molded plastic piece. It houses the slot through
which the CD tray comes out of. It also houses a window that the infrared from the remote control can penetrate to tell the thing what to do. And it has another little spot for an LED that indicates whether the device on and, or whether it's turned off. And then on the top, there are a number of different buttons. Those buttons are separate
pieces molded in there. There's an eject button,
a play/pause, a stop and a power button, so
fairly simple design. And this piece is probably
made out of ABS plastic. I don't see an ABS mark on it. It has these tabs, which snap
into the rest of the frame and make it easy to attach,
and fairly low cost there.