(music) Voiceover: Images are
really powerful things and they're political as well and they figure in to
the history of religion and the history of Christianity. Voiceover: The history
of the Byzantine Empire very specifically. There was always tension in the Church about creating images of Christ, images of Mary, images of God. Voiceover: Well, if you think about it, God is the creator and then
an artist is also creating, it's usurping, and so this was always a tricky issue. Voiceover: Icons, images of Mary, images of the saints, of Christ had become increasingly central in the Byzantine Empire and in worship. There was concern that people were infact worshiping the images
instead of venerating them or respecting and using the images to pass through to the prototype to the Divine figure that
was pictured in the image. In the 8th century, the emperor forbade the use of images in the Church. Voiceover: This begins
a period of iconoclasm. Iconoclasm is a Greek word that means breaking images. There was real violence. We believe that virtually every image in the City of Constantinople was destroyed during this period. Voiceover: This lasted from
the early 700s to the mid 800s. Voiceover: Question is, why? Why in the world were images seen as so destructive and so dangerous? Really it had to do with this concern that people were venerating not the God that an image represented, but the image itself. Voiceover: There is a commandment
against creating images. Voiceover: So, artists were
at a luck for quite a while. Voiceover: They were, yes. Voiceover: (laughs) What we're looking at here is a mosaic in the most prominent
place in Hagia Sophia, that is the most important
church in the Byzantine Empire. Voiceover: This dates to the period just after iconoclasm comes to an end. Voiceover: This is an
enormously important statement. Voiceover: This is the emperor
and the patriarchs saying, "No more iconoclasm. We want images. We think images are incredibly important." There was a resurgence of patronage of religious art during this period right after then end of iconoclasm. Voiceover: We see this glorious
image of the Virgin Mary seated on a clench with two cushions and she holds on her lap the Christ child. Voiceover: It's the only
resemble icons that remained Vast majority were
destroyed, some do remain. Voiceover: This is
specifically close to an icon that is in the Church of St. Catherine in Sinai in Egypt. This is a great example of the style that we call
the middle Byzantine. That is the period immediately
after the iconoclasm. Voiceover: She may look small here in the Church of Hagia Sophia, which is so tall and vast, but in fact she's 16 feet high. Voiceover: It's just that she's dwarfed by the immense proportions
of this architecture. Voiceover: By the gold of that apse. Voiceover: That gold of course is a way of representing the
Divine light of heaven. Voiceover: It's something
we see very often in Byzantine art. Voiceover: Look at the
way that she's right above that road windows. She really is floating. She really is even above the sky. Voiceover: Throughout Hagia Sophia there's a sense of light
as connected to the Divine. As she rests on those windows
and windows below her again and then above her in the semi-dome, there is a sense of her being
surrounded by Divine light. Voiceover: So we've got this light, we've got this gold field, but we've also got a
real sense of solidity and it's so different from the way we usually think
of think of the icon as flat Look at the platform
that they're seated on. Look at the solidity of the bench. These are really solid pieces of timber and by the way, very elegant. In fact, there's even gems. If we think about it in the
context of the end of iconoclasm, this is an artist that is
representing these forms and saying, "These
things are here to stay." Voiceover: The image is meant to reaffirm the importance of images. It had originally an inscription,
most of which is now gone, but that inscription said, "The images which imposters had cast down here pious emperors have set up again." There is a reassertion here
of the importance of images and a condemning of those
who destroyed the images. Voiceover: This particular
image is called the Theotokos. That is "one who gives birth to Christ". Voiceover: Referring here to Mary. Voiceover: This image was unveiled by the patriarch of the Eastern Church. Voiceover: That day he gave
a sermon in which he said, "Christ came to us in the flesh and was born in the arms of His mother. This is seen and confirmed and proclaimed in pictures. The teaching made manifest by means of personal eye witness and impelling the spectators to unhesitating ascent." Voiceover: This is about
the power of the image to move one emotionally and spiritually to inspire and to teach. (music)