- [Instructor] In this video, we're gonna take a journey in life and we're gonna start with
the smallest scale of life that is indisputably life,
and that is the cell. Now, the reason why I
qualified that a little bit is some people debate whether
viruses are living or not, 'cause they have certain aspects. Viruses can reproduce, they
do have genetic information but they need other
living forms to reproduce, in particular they need other cells. But even though we imagined cells to be these very small microscopic things, they are in and of themselves
almost an entire world, and we go into depth into
that into other videos in Khan Academy. But the fact that every cell in your body, except for a few like red blood cells have all of your genetic
information in there. All of those 3 billion base pairs of DNA that make you a human being in and of itself is mind-boggling. But then the fact that
the cell specializes so that not all cells are the same even though they have that
same genetic information, they somehow know what type of cell to be that's even more interesting. So we could start at the
most basic building block in your body or really any organism's body and that's specialized cells. So what you're seeing here
is a big cluster of neurons which are dyed here in the red, and I believe these blues
show their actual nuclei where they have their genetic information. And then dyed in green,
you have what are called neuroglia cells which
are other types of cells that are inside the human brain
mainly to support neurons. Most of what we believe is thought occurs through triggering neurons, which then trigger other neurons and form cascades of these
electro-chemical signals which we're just starting to understand. But this is just one little
small fraction of a human brain. A human brain, for example we'll have on the order of 80 to 90 billion neurons. And for every one of those neurons depending on what part of the
brain you're talking about, you're talking about five
to 10 neuroglia cells. So you're talking about many
hundreds of billions of cells just in one human brain. But then if we were to
zoom out a little bit and you take a bunch of
these specialized cells working together or at
least near each other, you have tissue. And so as I said before,
this is a zoomed in view of neural tissue in
particular of brain tissue. And then if you zoom
out a little bit more, the tissue makes up organs. And if we're thinking about
neural tissue like this, we can imagine that it makes up the brain which is an organ. And then organs build up to systems. And right over here, you have a picture of the nervous system of
which the brain is apart. You also have the spinal cord, and then you also have all of the nerves that go throughout the body. So we have a system. And then you put all
of the systems together and you get the actual organism, which of course you can somewhat
visualize right over here where you can see all of
these different organs and organ systems put
together to create who we are. And just to connect to the
organism with the cells, that basic building block of life. If you are a average size human being, you likely have 30 to 40
trillion cells in your body. And if that isn't mind blowing enough and it is just an estimate, it's estimated that there's as many as 100 trillion bacteria in your body. And so even though you think
you are just "an individual" you are a universe of living things in these complex systems. And it's an interesting question of why and right over here. We know that organisms
interact with each other. We know that they interact
with their environment just as each of our nerve
cells might not appreciate that they are one of 86
billion in dissension mind, maybe we ourselves as
organisms don't appreciate that we too are building blocks of maybe something even larger.