- [Voiceover] All right,
cellular respiration includes the metabolic
pathways of glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the
electron transport chain, as represented in the figures. So we have the figures here of, glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain. If all of this looks
completely foreign to you, I encourage you to watch
the videos on Khan Academy on glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain, and on cellular respiration in general. All right, but let's tackle this problem. It's a nice review of all of those things. In cellular respiration, carbohydrates and other metabolites are oxidized, meaning electrons are
taken away from them, and the resulting
energy-transfer reactions support the synthesis of ATP. All right, using the information above, describe one contribution
of each of the following in ATP synthesis. All right, the first one. Catabolism of glucose in
glycolysis and pyruvate oxidation. The second was oxidation of intermediates in the Krebs cycle. And the third one is
formation of a proton gradient by the electron transport chain. Now, each of these statements
seem kind of intimidating, but they're really just
saying, describe how glycolysis and pyruvate oxidation contribute to ATP synthesis. Describe how the Krebs cycle,
because the Krebs cycle is essentially nothing but the oxidation of these intermediates to produce things that are useful for ATP synthesis. And then the formation
of the proton gradient by the electron transport chain. Well that's what the
electron trans-prit (laughs), that's what the electron
transport chain does. It takes high energy
electrons from NADH or FADH2, and then as those high energy electrons go to lower and lower energy states, it's pumping these hydrogen
protons across the membrane and when they come back in,
that's used to synthesize ATP. So let's just answer. We have to describe one
contribution of each. So, let's first focus on glycolysis. So if we look here, there's
more than one contribution. You see that it can phosphorylate these two ADPs to two ATPs. So that's one contribution we could list. We could say that it's
producing these NADHs. It's producing these
NADHs, which can provide both the hydrogen proton
and, more importantly, the high-energy electrons for the electron transport chain later on. You see that right over here. Or you could say that, well, look, it's producing the Acetyl-CoA, which can enter the Krebs cycle, which is used to produce GTP or more NADHs or FADH2. So all of these are contributions, and since we only have to list one, I'll list the most direct and obvious one, although you could list any of these, is, I will list, so this
is one contribution. I'll say the phosphorylation, phosphorylation of two ADPs, two ADPs, to two ATPs, to two ATPs. And I could list several more, but that's a good one right over there, we just have to have one contribution. All right, oxidation of
intermediates in the Krebs cycle. So, the oxidation of the intermediates, that's just talking about
each of these things keep getting oxidized,
and as they get oxidized, we can use that to reduce other things, including NAD plus to NADH. So, when you reduce it,
it's gaining electrons. Notice, NAD plus is positive and then it becomes
NADH, which is neutral. And these NADHs are used later on in the electron transport chain to pump hydrogen protons
across the membrane which are then used in
oxidative phosphorylation to produce the ATP as they
go back through the membrane. So, you could talk about
the NADHs or FADH2s, or you could talk about
the direct creation of GTPs which could be used to create ATPs. So any of that is fine. So I'll just list one of them. So, I'll write reduction of NAD plus to NAD, NADH, which is used in electron transport chain, in electron transport chain to pump hydrogen protons to get, to create proton gradient, to create proton gradient, gradient. And once again, I could
talk about the GDP, the GT (laughs), the GTPs being created. I could talk about the
FADH2 being created. Formation of a proton gradient by the electron transport chain. Well, as the protons flow
with the gradient back into, back across the membrane,
they power ATP synthase which creates ATP from ADP. So, as protons flow across membrane, flow with gradient across membrane, flow with gradient across membrane, and if you're actually taking the AP test, you might want to just do it below, so you might have more space, but I'll just fill it in here. As protons flow with
gradient across membrane, they drive, they drive ATP synthase, ATP synthase, which, which takes, we can say oxidatively phosphorylates, so I'll just write phosphorylates, phosphorylates ADP, ADP to ATP. And once again, if
everything I'm saying here sounds foreign, and if these diagrams don't make a lot of sense to you. If they don't trigger a pleasurable memory in your head (laughs), I encourage you to watch
the videos (laughs) on Khan Academy, where
hopefully you'll get a little bit more intuition for the things that I am talking about. All right, now let's see
if we can tackle part b. Use each of the following observations to justify the claim that glycolysis first occurred in a common
ancestor of all living organisms. So, nearly all existing
organisms perform glycolysis. So, it's much more likely, so much more likely that this, in order for this to happen, maybe I'll write this. In order, so for this one right over here, in order for this to be the case, to be the case, it is much more likely, much more likely that this evolved in a common ancestor, in common ancestor and was passed down, and was passed down, or you could say selected for, even, and selected for, selected for, rather than independently coming about multiple times, than independently, independently arising in multiple branches
of the evolutionary change, than independently arising in multiple branches, branches, of tree of life. Or let me say, multiple
branches of evolutionary tree. Evolutionary, evolutionary tree. The fact that all, nearly, or they're saying nearly all, nearly all existing
organisms perform glycolysis. In theory, it could have
happened independently, just because it gets
selected so for strongly, but if something happens
in nearly all organisms, it's very likely that it
evolved at a very, very early stage, at a kind of a
primitive ancestor organism, and that was selected for, and it continues to be selected for and that's why we continue to see it. All right, glycolysis occurs
under anaerobic conditions. So actually, let me create some space here so things don't get too jumbled up. So glycolysis occurs under
anaerobic conditions. Well, early Earth, early Earth had little, had little oxygen little oxygen in atmosphere. Early life. So, early life, had to perform, had to, I guess you could say, produce ATP, or you could, early life had to metabolize, tab-ol-ize sugars or carbohydrates in anaerobic environment. In anaerobic, so an environment
that doesn't have oxygen. Anaerobic, anareobic environment. So that seems to, once
again, justify the claim that glycolysis first
occurred in a common ancestor of all living organisms. Glycolysis only occurs in cytosol. So, so most, so, earliest, earliest life didn't have membrane-bound organelles, membrane-bound organelles, so the fact that it
only occurs in cytosol, so fact that occurs in cytosol consistent with it be, that it's possible that early life did it. Is consistent that earl, with early life with it first occurring, occurring in common ancestor. First, with it first occurring in common, early ancestor. I'll then tackle parts c
and d in the next video.