To power a single motor,
you use the motor block, which is under your output here. However, this only works when
you're powering a single motor. However, if you are building
some sort of vehicle and you have multiple
motors attached-- let's say you have a motor
plugged into A and B-- you need to use the move block,
which is under the common area, and the move block allows you
to control multiple motors. And you do so by selecting the
port your motors are plugged into, so in this example,
I have A and B checked, and that's where my
motors are plugged into. And now I can easily adjust the
direction to both those motors here. And I can also
adjust the steering to favor either towards A
or B, and what steering does is it just adjusts the power
being sent to those motors. And you also have
an overall power setting for all motors
that are plugged in. You can go to max power
and all the way to 0. And the duration is how long you
want this block to execute for. So you can do unlimited, and
this will just continue running and you won't even need
a loop in this case. You can also do some
fine adjustments and say, I want my motors to
turn five degrees, and because of the
internal rotation sensor, it can do a very
fine adjustment. You can also set
it to do rotations, such as, I want my motors
to rotate three times. There. And the last option is
you can set the duration, so you can have your
motors run for 2.5 seconds if that's what you need
in your application. The final setting is Next
Action, and what this does is it allows you to
select Brake or Coast. Brake means when
this block ends, the motors immediately shut off. And, however, you
can also select Coast, which means the
power ramps off slowly and you get this
smoother response. So that's how you can control
either multiple motors, or the same thing applies if
you're using a single motor. It's all the same
settings, except it only applies to a single motor port.