- [Narrator] In this video, I want to talk about human migration. And when we say human migration, we mean people moving from
one location to a new location with the intent of staying
in the new location. The first migration I want to look at here is the Bantu migration
in Sub-Saharan Africa. And what's interesting
about Sub-Saharan Africa from a linguistic or language perspective is that when you look
at Sub-Saharan Africa in terms of language families, the majority of people in
most of Sub-Saharan Africa speak a Bantu language. And archeologists and
linguists who study the spread of the Bantu languages know
that the Bantu language probably originated somewhere
here in West Africa. So the question that arises from this is, how did this language spread throughout so much of Sub-Saharan Africa? Well, one problem we have when we try to answer that question is that we don't have written records. These languages were not written down at the time that the actual migrations and expansion occurred. But one thing that Bantu-speaking
cultures had in common was that they knew how to make and use iron tools and weapons. And fortunately for archeologists, iron tools and weapons tend
to hold up fairly well. So they can find these sites
where Bantu speakers lived, and they can date the
artifacts that they find, and from that they can get a sense of when various Bantu-speaking
groups showed up in different parts of Africa, and then from there we can
kind of trace the spread. And it looks something like this. And the fact that Bantu
speakers had these iron tools and weapons is one of the
causes of their expansion. From a military standpoint,
if you have iron weapons and the people you are
fighting against do not, you're gonna have a really big advantage. They also were able to make
agricultural implements, or tools, out of iron. These were stronger,
they were more durable, they were better for working with, which helped the Bantu speakers produce more and better food. And more and better food causes
increased population growth. And as a population grows
in a particular area, that puts more pressure on the resources to feed this population, and
that in turn forces people to start to look for new
places to migrate to. And I mentioned a little earlier that the Bantu speakers were farmers. And they were growing things
like millet and sorghum, and later on they started
to raise cattle as well. And what these crops and
cattle have in common is that they all tend to
do well in what's called a tropical, or a
sub-tropical savanna climate. And when you look at Sub-Saharan Africa, a lot of Sub-Saharan Africa is a tropical or sub-tropical savanna climate. So if we look at our spread
of Bantu-speaking people in Africa, we see that it
actually lines up pretty well with the areas of Africa
that have this same climate. So we can see the climate
of Sub-Saharan Africa, or at least much of Sub-Saharan Africa, that aligned with Bantu
agricultural practices as being another cause
of the Bantu expansion. So we know that causes also have effects, and we wanna think about
what were the effects of the Bantu migration
on Sub-Saharan Africa? Well that first point I made about it was that even today, many many
people in Sub-Saharan Africa speak some Bantu language. Now there are several
hundred Bantu languages, but they are all related
and it does go back to this initial expansion
of Bantu speakers. So that's one effect of the
migration on Sub-Saharan Africa. The Bantu speakers also brought
the iron-working technology that they had with them as they expanded, and so one other effect was
that iron-working technology spread throughout Sub-Saharan Africa. And finally, they were bringing new crops and new farming practices
into regions where they moved, and this had some
effects on the landscape. When you're actively farming an area that's going to look different than people who are living a hunting
and gathering lifestyle. The second human migration
I want to look at in this video is that of people
into the Pacific Islands. And I have a map here that
shows the most likely route of expansion that people followed as they moved into the islands
of the Pacific over time. And when we look at the Pacific Islands, the obvious obstacle to travel there is that there is a lot of open ocean, and these islands are very
small and oftentimes far apart. So, one of the ways that
people were able to travel and migrate across the pacific
had to do with technology. Specifically, the
technology that people had in the Pacific Islands
were sailing canoes. And I have an image here,
this is a modern recreation of a sailing canoe,
but it gives us a sense of what these vessels
would have looked like. And you can see that the
two hulls and the sail are gonna let it be a little more sturdy, they're gonna let it take
advantage of the winds to travel across the ocean. So having this technology
was one of the things that allowed people to
actually physically move across the Pacific Ocean. So now we need to think about why were people trying to
travel across the Pacific Ocean? Well, similar to the forces
that caused the Bantu migration in Sub-Saharan Africa, in the Pacific Ocean we also
had population pressures. And in the Pacific, we have
a lot of small islands. So population pressure
becomes an issue a lot quicker at a lot lower population
than it did in Africa. We see population
pressure as a major cause of migration in the Pacific. And because a lot of
islands in the Pacific Ocean don't produce a lot of natural foodstuffs that people can eat, these
people who were migrating in the Pacific had to
bring food with them. So they would bring plants with them, they would bring things
like taro roots or yams, and these were plants that
they knew would grow well in these island environments. They also brought animals with them. So, chickens, and this is an image of a Southeast Asian jungle fowl, and these were the precursors
to domestic chickens. They also brought pigs,
and a breed of small dogs. And the dogs were not hunting dogs, the dogs were a source of food. And rats also tended to
tag along on these trips. So, you have people
moving to these islands, and most of them are
fairly small ecosystems and environments, and they
bring these new plants and these new animals, and
this has some major effects on the environments where
they choose to live. I already mentioned
with the Bantu migration that bringing agriculture to new regions can have some impacts on the landscape, and in the case of
migration in the Pacific, the animals have even more impact. So the rats, for example,
tend to eat bird eggs, as well as get into and eat people's food. And the pigs also compete
with people for food. The pigs are supposed to be
a source of food for people, but pigs do fairly well if
left to their own devices, and they became a competing
population with people for food resources. And there's actually a
story from one island in about the year 1600, they
ended up killing all their pigs because the pigs were
causing too much damage to the rest of their food supply. And generally, the people on these islands would find a balance
between producing food and helping a population
they could support without destroying the island environment, but there were some cases where islands were nearly destroyed
because of the effects of human populations living there. Most famously, the
example of Easter Island, which is off the coast of Chile. If you have some time
to look up that story, it's an interesting example of the impacts that humans can have on an environment. But to summarize, we see a couple common
causes of migration. And in both cases, in
Africa and in the Pacific, we see that pressures on food resources cause people to look
for new places to live. We also see that technologies allow people to move into new environments. And on the effects side, we see that when people
move to new environments, that's going to have impacts on the places that they move to. People are going to bring
new plants and new animals, and that's gonna have some
environmental impacts. And people are also gonna bring
new cultures and new ideas to regions as well. So hopefully this can
provide you a framework for understanding other
migrations that you might look at, in that you can think about
what is causing people to move? And once people do move,
what impacts does that have?