- [Voiceover] Here we have two compounds. So this one and this one
that would both be called 1, 2-dimethylcyclohexane,
but the top one here has two methyl groups going up
in space or coming out at us. So those two methyl groups
must be on the same side of the ring, and we call that cis. For this one we have one
methyl group with a wedge, and one methyl group with a dash. So those two methyl groups are on opposite sides of the ring,
and we call that trans. So first we're gonna look at the cis-1,2-dimethylcyclohexane compound, and we're gonna draw
both chair conformations. And then we'll look at the trans. Here we have our chair
conformation at carbon one, we have methyl group that is up axial. We also have a hydrogen
that's down equatorial, which is a little bit hard to see here, and the hydrogen's green
so we can see it better. At carbon two, we have a methyl
group that is up equatorial, and then we have a
hydrogen that's down axial. So again it's green to see it better. When this chair conformation
undergoes a ring flip, I rotate this carbon up and
I rotate this carbon down. And then we turn it a little
bit so we can see our other chair conformation, and then we analyze what happened to our groups. Now at carbon one, we
have a methyl group that's up equatorial and our
hydrogen is now down axial. And at carbon two, our
methyl group is up axial and our hydrogen is down equatorial. Now let's draw our chair conformations. So we'll start with the one on the left. So you've seen how to
draw chair conformations in earlier videos, we start
with our two parallel lines that are off set from each other. So there's one line and
there's our other line. Next we draw a dotted
line that just touches the top part of the top line. So there's our first dotted line, so it's supposed to come
close to this point, and then our other dotted
line is gonna go right here and touch the bottom
point of the bottom line. Next we think about another
set of parallel lines. So if we draw a line from
the top one down to here, and then we draw one
parallel to that over here, and then finally we put in our
last set of parallel lines. So from this point to here and
then from this point to here. If we call this carbon one, we
start up axial at carbon one, as we've seen in earlier
videos, and then carbon two would be down axial since we alternate. I'll stop there, I won't draw in the rest of the hydrogens just to save time. If we go back to carbon
one we know that next we go down, down equatorial
so I put that one in, and then at carbon two this would be up. So let's look at our picture here, and we can see that our methyl group is up axial at carbon one
so we put in a CH3 up axial. Then we have a hydrogen down equatorial right here at carbon one. At carbon two, our methyl
group is up equatorial. So we put that in, and
then we have a hydrogen that's down axial. So this is the cis compound. Both these methyl groups
are on the same side, they're both going up relative
to a flat plane of the ring. We know that this chair
conformation is in equilibrium with our other chair
conformations, so let's go ahead and draw the one on the right now. So we start with our two parallel lines that are a little offset
so here's one of the lines, and then here is the other one. Next we draw our dotted lines
intersecting that top point, and intersecting the bottom point here. Finally we think about our
next set of parallel lines, so this one and then this
one, and finally our last set of parallel lines so from here to here and then from here to here. Now we can see that this is carbon one, so here is carbon one after
we undergo a ring flip, and now we start down axial at carbon one. So I'll draw it down axial at carbon one. At carbon two now it's up axial,
so up axial at carbon two. So let's put in our methyl groups, and to do that we need to
put in the other bonds. So this would be up and then down. So at carbon one, we can
see our methyl group is up equatorial so we put in our CH3 here, and our hydrogen is down axial. And then at carbon two, our
methyl group is up axial, and then our hydrogen is down equatorial. So when this compound
underwent a ring flip. Alright we know this is carbon
one where our methyl group was up axial, and then this is carbon one. Our methyl group is still
up relative to the plane of the ring, but now it is equatorial. So that's what happens
when you do a ring flip. And then carbon two, let
me change colors here. So carbon two, we had a methyl
group that was up equatorial, and now our methyl group is up axial. So for both chair
conformations the methyl groups are on the same side, and
that's why we say cis. In terms of which one is the
more stable conformation, for both of these we have
one methyl group axial and one methyl group equatorial. So they are equivalent, so they're the same in terms of energy. Next let's look at
trans-1,2-dimethylcyclohexane. Here we have
trans-1,2-dimethylcyclohexane, and you can see at carbon one
we have a methyl group that's up axial, and a hydrogen
that's down equatorial. And at carbon two, we have a
hydrogen that's up equatorial, and a methyl group that's down axial. If this undergoes a ring flip,
so I lift this carbon up, and pull this carbon down
and then turn it so we can see our other chair conformation. Now let's analyze what
happened to our methyl groups. At carbon one, now our methyl group is up equatorial, and at carbon two our methyl group is down equatorial. Now let's draw the chair conformations for the trans compound. The cis and trans compounds
are isomers of each other. They're different molecules. So let's draw this chair
conformation on the left, and we start with our parallel lines that are offset from each other. So there's one line and
then there's the other one. Next we put in our dotted
lines, and our dash lines here. So that one hits the
top part, this one hits the bottom part like that,
and then we draw a line from here to here and then a parallel to that. And then we put in our
last set of parallel lines. So that gives us our carbon skeleton, and we start at carbon
one, we start axial up. And then at carbon two is axial down, and then we have down and then up. So now since this is carbon
one, we see our methyl group is up axial so we put our
methyl group up axial here, and then we have our
hydrogen down equatorial. So we put that in, at
carbon two the hydrogen is up equatorial and the
methyl group is down axial, so let's put that in. Alright, you can see
those two methyl groups are on opposite sides of the ring. So one is going up, right
this one is going up, and then this one is going down. So they're trans to each other. This chair conformation is in equilibrium with our other one. Let's draw the one on the right. So we start with our
parallel lines offset, and then we draw in our
dash or dotted line here. So next we put in our next
set of parallel lines, so here to here, here to here, and then connect these points. So that's just a really rough
chair, and then now this is carbon one so we start
axial down at carbon one. Carbon two would be axial
up and then let's put in our other ones here like that. Alright, for this one this is carbon one, and we see our methyl
group is now up equatorial. So now our methyl group
of carbon one is here, and we have a hydrogen
going down at carbon one. At carbon two our hydrogen is up axial, and our methyl group is down
equatorial, so here's our CH3. It's hard sometimes to see
these equatorial bonds. So a good hint is to
look at the axial ones. For example, you look at this bond here, you think, "Is this up or down relative "to the plane of the ring?" It's pretty hard to see,
but this one is clearly up. So that means that this one must be down, so there's a little trick. Alright, let's look at those two groups and what happened in our ring flip. So let's start with carbon
one, so here's carbon one with our methyl group that's up axial. For the ring flip that
methyl group stayed up relative to the plane of the
ring, but now it is equatorial. So there's that same methyl group. For carbon two, this was
carbon two, our methyl group was down axial and here
it is down equatorial. So for both of our chair
conformations, the methyl groups are on opposite sides of the ring. If we analyze these two
chair conformations in terms of stability, well for
this one on the left we have two axial substituents. That's not as stable as
the one on the right. The one on the right
has our two relatively bulky methyl groups equatorial, and we know that's the
best place for them. That decreases the steric hindrance. So the one on the right is
the more stable conformation. Finally let's do a problem. So our goal is to draw the
most stable conformation of trans-1-tert-butyl-3-methylcyclohexane. We know the most stable conformation is going to be a chair conformation. So let's start by drawing a chair. So we have one parallel
line, so here's one of them, and then here is the other one
so they're a little offset. And next we put in our dotted
lines just as guidelines to help us with the drawing here. And our next set of parallel
lines goes in, so this point to this point we try to draw a
line parallel to that over here, and finally our last set. So from here to here
and from here to here. Alright, so trans, which
means that our two groups are on opposite sides of our ring. What are the two groups? We have a tert-butyl group at carbon one, and we have a methyl
group at carbon three. So we know this is carbon one, so let me go ahead and start up axials. So here's up axial and then we alternate, so at carbon two must be down axial. Carbon three must be up axial. Let's go back and put in equatorials. So at carbon one must be
down, carbon two must be up, and carbon three must be down. So let's put in our tert-butyl
group at carbon one. So now we have two choices, where do we put our tert-butyl group? Do we put it axial, or
do we put it equatorial? Well we know this is a very bulky group, and we put bulky groups equatorial. So we have only one choice at carbon one. We must put the tert-butyl
group right here. Alright so now we chose to
put the tert-butyl group down at carbon one, so this is down. And since this says trans,
that means we must put the methyl group up at carbon three. So we go to carbon three,
and then here's carbon three. We have only one choice, we
must put the methyl group axial. That's the only one that's going up, so here is our CH3 like that. So let's go ahead and erase
these other bonds here just to make this look a little prettier. So I'll just erase this stuff, and I'll just erase this stuff. You could put in all of your hydrogens, you could leave this stuff out. I'll just clean this up a little bit, take care of our dotted lines, and then so we can see our conformation. So here is the most stable conformation of trans-1-tert-butyl-3-methylcyclohexane.