(jazzy music) - [Host] Was there a
work of art that inspired or moved you or changed your life? - [Commentator] An artwork
that really stopped me in my tracks is Mary
Cassatt's "Lydia in a Loge." It is an interesting composition, the fact that it was
done by a woman artist made one explore the idea of gender in art and it made me actually go
to Paris and go to the Opera and sit in a loge box and
experience a performance there. - [Commentator] I thought
I really understood Chartres Cathedral. When I saw slides it really
looked like a cathedral on a hill where there was
open air all around it. It was a complete myth, this photograph that I learned from. I was lucky enough to be
able to go to Chartres and it was completely surrounded by a city and I realized how
integral the cathedral was to the community because the
entire city was really built around this central plaza. I think any time I've ever
seen a work of art in person that I learned first as a
slide I learned something new and I'm just bowled over. - [Commentator] Albrecht
Durer, his "Self Portrait" where he kind of looks like Jesus, it really blew my mind
that anybody would think so highly of themselves
as to put themselves in that position, but at the same time it's such a gorgeous painting
and you see his expertise. You almost think, well, maybe he is right. Maybe he should put
himself on that pedestal. It is humorous, it's
elegant, and that's the one that really made me look
at work in a different way. - [Commentator] When I was
13, this is a few years after the wall came down in Berlin, and we book a trip and saw Nefertiti. I was totally awestruck, she is utterly beautiful and imperfect. She is human and yet she's
thousands of years old and so to have this vivid
image of a powerful woman from the past was something
that I think put me on the trajectory of
becoming an art historian. - [Commentator] A work of
art that has changed the way I've thought about the past is when I was a freshman undergraduate I was taught of Hans
Holbein's "The Ambassadors" as being this portrait of
a European Renaissance man and then later on I
learned to pay attention to the globe that is on
the shelf and I learned to pay attention to the
navigation instruments and realized through that work of art the past was an
interconnected place in a way that is not exactly the same as our globally connected,
21st-century lives but similar. (jazzy music)