In this video, we're going to
look at the cleavage of alkenes using a reaction
called ozonolysis. So over here on the left
I have my generic alkene, and to that alkene
we're going to add O3 in the first
step, which is ozone. And in the second
step, we're going to add DMS, which
is dimethyl sulfide. And be careful because
there are different regions you could add in
the second step, so make sure to learn the
one that your professor wants you to use. If you use it DMS,
you're going to get to a mixture of aldehydes and
or ketones for your product, depending on what is attached
to your initial alkene. So let's start by looking at
a dot structure for ozone. So over here on the left is a
possible structure for ozone. And we can draw a
resonant structure by taking these
electrons and moving them in here to form a double bond
between those two oxygens. And now it pushed
these electrons in here off onto the oxygen on the left. So let's go ahead and draw
the other resonant structure. So now I would have a double
bond between my two oxygens on the right. The oxygen on the far
right has two lone pairs of electrons around it now. The oxygen in the center
still has a lone pair of electrons on it, and
the oxygen on the far left now has three lone pairs
of electrons on it. So the oxygen on
the far left now has a negative 1 formal charge,
and the oxygen on the top here still has a plus
1 formal charge. And so those are our
two resonant structures. Remember that the
actual molecule is a hybrid of these
two resonant structures. So let's go ahead and pick one
of those resonant structures. I'm just going to take
the one on the right. So let me just go ahead and
redraw the resonant structure on the right. And so we're going
to do the one that has the negative charge on
the oxygen on the far left. And this top oxygen is
a plus 1 formal charge. And the oxygen on the
right has no charge in this resonant structure. So let's go ahead and
draw in our alkene. And so here is our alkene
with unknown substituents at the moment. We think about our mechanism,
the negative charge on the oxygen-- this
lone pair of electrons here-- is going to
attack this carbon which would push these
pi electrons off. And those pi
electrons are actually going go to this
oxygen right here which would push these pi electrons
in here off onto this oxygen. So it's a concerted
mechanism here. And so let's go ahead
and draw the results of those electrons moving. So the oxygen on the left
is now bonded to the carbon on the left. The carbon on the left
now has a single bond to the carbon on the right. The carbon on the right is
now bonded to this oxygen. And then these two oxygens
are bonded to an oxygen in the center. For lone pairs of electrons,
all of our oxygens are going to have two
lone pairs of electrons. Like that. And so we had so many
electrons moving, let's say if we can follow them. So let's color coordinate
some electrons here. So I'm going to say that
these electrons in blue, those are the ones that
formed this bond between the oxygen
and the carbon. And I'm going to say that
these pi electrons here in red, those are the ones
that formed this bond between this carbon
and this oxygen. And then finally,
these electrons-- I'm saying these are my
pi electrons in here-- are going to move off
onto this top oxygen. So you could say
that those magenta electrons would be right there. And so now we have
this structure. Now oxygen oxygen bonds
are relatively weak. So they're unstable and so we
have two oxygen oxygen bonds in this molecule. And so one of those
oxygen oxygen bonds is going to break in the
next step of the mechanism. And so I could pick either
one since they're symmetrical. I'm just going to say that---
I'm just going to say that these electrons over here--
so I'm going to say that this oxygen oxygen bond is going
to break in the next part of our mechanism. And so, if we think about
these electrons and this oxygen moving in here, that would
break this bond between the two carbons because there'd
be too many bonds to the carbon on the right. So this bond is going to break,
push those electrons into here, and then these
electrons in green are going to come off onto
the top oxygen [INAUDIBLE]. So our unstable oxygen
oxygen bond breaks. And so let's go ahead and
draw what we would get. Well, on the left
side, we have a carbon. And now that carbon is going to
have two bonds to the oxygen. And the oxygen is going to have
two lone pairs of electrons. It would make a
carbonyl compound. On the right, the
carbon on the right is bonded to two other things
and now has a double bond to this oxygen here. And now this oxygen has only one
lone pair of electrons on it. And then this oxygen is
bonded to the other oxygen, and that oxygen now
has three lone pairs of electrons, which would give
it a negative 1 formal charge. So we have a negative
1 formal charge here, this oxygen
right here gets a positive 1 formal
charge, and we form a carbonyl
oxide on the right. So this charge
compound on the right's called a carbonyl oxide. So in the next step
of the mechanism, if we think about
the carbonyl compound on the left-- so this
carbonyl compound on the left here-- the double
bond between oxygen and carbon, oxygen is more
electronegative than carbon so oxygen's going to pull
those electrons closer to it to give the oxygen a
partial negative charge. Carbon's going to lose
some electron density so this carbon's going to have
a partial positive charge. And you can see that you have
this partially negatively charged oxygen right next to
a negatively charged oxygen on the carbonyl oxide. And so those, of course,
are going to repel. So we're going to flip over the
carbonyl compound on the left. So we're going to flip over
this compound on the left and I'm going to draw
the carbonyl oxide on the right the same way. So as we continue in
our mechanism here, we're going to flip over the
carbonyl compound on the left and we're going to keep the
carbonyl oxide the same, and the same
orientation like that. And so let's go
ahead and put in all of our lone pairs of
electrons and formal charges. So negative formal charge here,
positive formal charge here, and two lone pairs of
electrons on this oxygen. So let's get a little
bit more room here. And once again, we can think
about our carbonyl compound being polarized. Right? The oxygen is partially negative
and this carbon right here is partially positive. And so in the next
step of the mechanism, we're going to get a
nucleophilic attack. We're going to get to this
negatively charged oxygen is going to attack this
partially positive carbon right here. And if the oxygen forms a
bond with this carbon, that would be too many
bonds to this carbon and so this lone
pair of electrons, these pi electrons
in here, are going to go after this
carbon, which would push these electrons in here
off on to that oxygen. So once again, we have a
lot of electrons moving. So let's see if we can go
ahead and draw the product and see if we can follow
those electrons a little bit. So now we're going to
have this carbon over here is bonded to an oxygen. This oxygen is
now bonded to what used to be our
carbonyl oxide carbon. This carbon is bonded
to two other things, it's also bonded to an
oxygen, and that oxygen is bonded to an oxygen which
is now bonded to this carbon. So let me go ahead and put in
our lone pairs of electrons. Each of our oxygens
is going to have two lone pairs of
electrons like that. And once again, let's see if
we can follow those electrons because there was a
lot that was happening. So let's go ahead and
follow these electrons right here in blue. So the ones on the negatively
charged oxygen, those the ones that are going to nucleophilic
attack that carbonyl carbon right here and
form of this bond. So this bond in blue represents
those blue electrons. All right, if we follow
these pi electrons here-- so these pi electrons and
that carbonyl in red-- those are going to form a
bond between this oxygen and this carbon like that. And then finally,
these pi electrons in here on the
carbonyl oxides are going to move-- those
electrons are going to move off on to that oxygen like that. And so we have
this compound now. So that's all for the
first step, right? That's adding ozone
the to our alkene. And now we can go ahead
at our dimethyl sulfide. So dimethyl sulfide comes
along-- let's go ahead and draw that in here--
so we'd have a sulfur. And then that sulfur is
bonded to two methyl groups and the sulfur has two lone
pairs of electrons like that. And so one of those
pairs on the sulfur is going to attack
this oxygen right here. So one lone pair is going
to attack this oxygen. And once again, we have a
weak oxygen oxygen bond. Right? So let me see if I can highlight
that weak oxygen oxygen bond. So right here is our
weak oxygen oxygen bond which is going to break. And those electrons are
going to move in to here. And that would be too
many bonds to this carbon, so these electrons in red
are going to move into here. And then finally,
the electrons in blue are going to come back
off on to that top oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw--
let's go ahead and draw that. All right, so what happens now? Now we would have-- we would
have a carbon over here on the left. It's now double
bonded to this oxygen. And this oxygen gets two
lone pairs of electrons. The carbon over
here on the right is now doubly bonded
to an oxygen like that. And then this carbon is also
bonded to two other things. And the sulfur--
right-- the sulfur is now bonded to
this oxygen here. The sulfur is bonded
to this oxygen, this oxygen has three
lone pairs of electrons, which gives it a
negative 1 formal charge. The sulfur is bonded
to two methyl groups and it still has a
lone pair of electrons on it because it
had two lone pairs to start with which
gives the sulfur a plus 1 formal charge like that. And so if you just focused in
on the sulfur compound up here, you could draw a
resonant structure. You could move these
electrons in here. And so if we drew a
resonant structure for that, we would now have sulfur doubly
bonded to an oxygen like that with two methyl groups
and still having a lone pair of electrons on it. So we can now recognize that
as DMSO, or dimethyl sulfoxide. And so we produce DMSO,
but more importantly, we produce these two
carbonyls down here. Once again, aldehydes or ketones
depending on what is attached. Right? So we produce these
aldehydes or ketones here. And so if we follow
some of our electrons-- so these electrons in the
red over here on the left, those moved in here on
our carbonyl compound. And the electrons in green
over here on the left, those moved in here to form
this carbonyl compound. So after an extremely
long mechanism, we finally get to our mixture
of aldehydes hides ketones. Let's go ahead
and do one example to make sure that you
can apply this reaction. All right, let's
look at an alkene. So here is our alkene. And to our alkene,
in the first step, we're going to add ozone, so O3. And the second step, we're
going to add dimethyl sulfide, so DMS. So the way to think about
this reaction, or an easy way to think about it-- let me
go ahead and redraw it here. We know that we're going
to cleave the double bond. We're going to break
the double bond here. We know that our
double bond-- this is a methyl group, and over
here is a hydrogen, right? We didn't draw it in over
here on the left side but we know it's there. We're going to cleave
this double bond. We're going to
cleave it right here. And so one way to do this would
be just to erase that part. Right? So if we think about
erasing this part right here and adding in an oxygen
to either one of those carbons here. So we're going to add
in an oxygen right here. And add in an oxygen down here. And so it's a little bit hard
to see so let me go ahead and redraw it. So down at the
bottom we now have a carbonyl and that's a ketone. And up here at the top, we're
going to have an aldehyde. And so this is your product. Now, this is probably not
the easiest way to draw it. So let's go ahead and redraw
it in a different way here. So if we're going to draw
it as a straight chain, let's see how many carbons
we would have to deal with. So we have one, two, three,
four, five, six carbons. Let's go ahead and straighten
out that molecule a little bit. So we would have a one and
then we have a ketone here. So that's two carbons. Three, four, five, six carbons. And then we have our
aldehyde right here. And so there's
our aldehyde which would be this carbon right here. So a total of seven carbons. So one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven. So this reaction produces
an aldehyde and a ketone. So once again, be careful
with the second step. And pay attention to what
your professor wants to use.