- [Instructor] So why do we care about the Market Revolution? The Industrial Revolution
and the Transportation and the Communication Revolutions
of the early 19th century had a major impact on American society, both in the short term
and in the long term. In this video, I want to talk
about three major effects of the Market Revolution,
and those were changes in labor, entry into a national and international market system and the Second Great Awakening. All right, so what effect did the Market Revolution have on labor? Well, we've already talked
about this a little bit in the earlier videos, but here is a view of a textile factory floor. Now this is from a slightly later period, but I think it gives you a
good sense of what it was like to work in a textile factory. With the Market Revolution
really comes the emergence of factory labor in the United States. And there are a couple of
ways that, that's important. One is that people
start working for wages. It's a move away from subsistence farming and a barter economy,
which also means that people aren't necessarily in
charge of themselves anymore. And there's a lot that
goes along with that, which means that people
stop being their own bosses. Instead, they report to other bosses. And that can be problematic because it means that you have a lot less control over your daily life. So imagine that you're a
farmer and you're really sick. Oh well, you know maybe you
don't plant some seed that day and you do it the next day. Imagine that you work at a textile mill and you get really sick,
you don't report to work and you get fired. So people are no longer
able to set the pace of their own lives by and large. And with things like
interchangeable parts, for example, fewer and fewer artisans,
so masters of a craft, are making goods from start to finish. So it used to be perhaps you
would be a master shoemaker, a master cobbler, and you would
make every part of that shoe from tanning the leather
to nailing in the sole. The system of interchangeable parts, which will later become even more codified as the assembly-line system, means that most people are only doing one part of a task. So instead of doing all of
making a shoe and saying at the end of it, "I made this shoe, "I am a master maker of
shoes," now your entire job might just be to hammer in one nail and then hand off the
shoe to the next person. So there's never anything
that you can point to and say, "I made that." So a lot of people say
that this is a period when people stop being able to
take pride in their own work or at least not as much pride. But what's even more
important about this process of interchangeable parts,
assembly-line labor, is that it leads to an overall,
what they call, deskilling. So removing the skill from labor. And what's important about that is that if you've broken down a
task into enough small parts that you've got people
literally hammering in the same nail on a different
shoe 12 hours a day, then you don't necessarily
need highly trained artisans to do that. And what happens if you
are not highly trained, we'll call this unskilled labor,
and you decide you want to strike for higher pay? Well, your boss doesn't
need to train anyone to hammer in that nail
so you'll just get fired. So it makes the labor force in general a little bit more precarious
because you don't need an exceptional skill
to have a factory job, but you are easily replaced. All right, let's talk about
entry into a market system. Now what do I mean by this? In this time period, the
United States develops what's called a market economy. And that's different from what
most people had been doing up until that point because
people in the United States had mainly shipped raw materials over to Europe, England particularly, to be processed and made
into finished goods. And this is similar to
the system of mercantilism that you might be familiar
with from the colonial era. Well, the war of 1812
and some of the conflict leading up to it, led the United
States to embargo England, which was a manufacturing center. So people couldn't send
their raw materials there. They responded by investing
in their own factories. So the war of 1812 is actually
a pretty important moment for the development of domestic
industrialization at home. And so now, instead of
this kind of import/export or barter economy, people are making deals with other investors all
over the United States, all over the world. So this gives people an
opportunity to invest and to speculate. And that means that as they're a part of an international market
of investment speculation, they're prone to the
kinds of booms and busts that characterize capitalism, right? Now we often think of the Great Depression as having been the first
major American depression. But really, it was the
largest and most recent up until that point, because
after the war of 1812, the United States kinda
goes through approximately a 20-year cycle of boom and bust. So boom is when things are getting better, things are looking up, the
economy is going really well, and then a bubble of some kind bursts. And in 1819, they had the very
first of these bubbles burst, it's called the Panic of
1819 in land speculation. And this is the first time
that the United States had actually experienced any
kind of economic depression. So imagine how frightening
that would have been to them. One of the hardest things
about market-based capitalism is that individuals
don't really have control over the larger market. It's not one person that made
the Great Depression happen. It was an overall loss
in consumer confidence or perhaps overproduction, right? If too many people are
supplying the same commodity, the price is dropping through
the laws of supply and demand. So now, the laws of supply
and demand and the pressures of an international
market are really changing the nature of American commerce because they're enmeshed in that market. And that has all kinds of
political and social ramifications for the United States. Understanding the volatility of belonging to an international market kind of helps explain why Andrew Jackson was so obsessed with the National Bank at this time period, right? Because it represents
this confusing matrix of international supply and demand and people getting credit
or not getting credit. And being part of this
international market is something that's going
to have a major effect on the American South, and particularly the enslaved population that
lives in the American South because they're going
to be supplying cotton to the world's textile mills. And those are textile mills in New England and textile mills in England. And as the world demands
cotton for processing, the South is going to supply that cotton, which is picked by enslaved individuals. And one of the reasons that
the Confederacy believes that it can succeed as
an independent nation is because they're
supplying cotton to England. And when England managed to
find its own supply of cotton from Egypt and India, the economic chances of the Confederacy were sunk. And the last thing that I
think is related to this Market Revolution is the
Second Great Awakening. Now I don't wanna go into
too much detail about this because of a whole
separate series of videos about the Second Great Awakening, but this Second Great Awakening
was kind of an explosion of religious fervor, which was happening at almost exactly the same
time as the Market Revolution. And many American
historians actually think that it's these confusing and confounding and anxious forces that
lead a lot of people to take up religion. Because as the world is
changing around them, as people now have to
relate in different ways to their neighbors as bosses and employees rather than bartering partners, and as they're swept up
in international markets that are outside their control, people look for new explanations and comfort in an increasingly confusing world. So that's one explanation for
the Second Great Awakening. So I started out this series
of videos by saying that some historians have argued
that the Market Revolution was actually more revolutionary than the American Revolution. Now that's a difficult question to answer because we're talking about
a revolution in politics as opposed to kind of a
revolution of economics. But I will say that though
the American Revolution dissolved the political bonds
between the United States and Great Britain, its
social and economic impact were relatively limited. Most people kind of ended
up in the same place socially after the American Revolution as they were before it. But the Market Revolution
changes an awful lot in American society in terms of how they participate internationally and how people organize their daily lives. So I think there is a
strong argument to be made that this revolution of
economics, technology, even religion, is
considerably farther reaching than the American Revolution.