In this video, we're going to
look at the biological redox reactions of
alcohols in phenols. Over here on the left, we
have the ethanol molecule. So this is our 2-carbon alcohol. And the carbon that
we're most concerned with is this carbon right
here, which has one bond to this oxygen atom. And in the liver, ethanol
is oxidized to ethanal. So over here on the right
is the ethanal molecule-- a 2-carbon aldehyde. And once again, we're concerned
with that carbon in yellow. And so one easy way to tell that
ethanol was oxidized to ethanal is to see that, on
the left, we have one bond of that
carbon to oxygen. And over here on
the right, we now have two bonds of
that carbon to oxygen. So an increase in the number of
bonds to oxygen is oxidation. You could also assign oxidation
states to this carbon. And you will see that there's
an increase in the oxidation state of that carbon. And then, you could also
think about electrons. LEO the lion goes GER-- loss
of electrons is oxidation, gain of electrons is reduction. And so if I think about these
electrons here in magenta, you can see that
those electrons are lost from the ethanol molecule. So loss of electrons is
oxidation, ethanol is oxidized. If ethanol is oxidized,
something else must be reduced. That's how redox reactions work. What's reduced is NAD+
over here on the left. So this is NAD+, which stands
for "nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide." The adenine is hiding
in this R portion. And we have a
nitrogenous-based ring with an amide functional
group over here on the right for the
nicotinamide portion of the molecule. Plus 1 formal charge on
this nitrogen gives us NAD+. This is nicotinamide
adenine dinucleotide-- NAD+. And since ethanol is oxidized,
NAD+ must be reduced. So reduction means
gaining of electrons. NAD+ is going to gain those
electrons in magenta from ethanol. So if we think about
a possible mechanism, if I took these electrons
between the oxygen the hydrogen and moved them in here, that
would form our double bond between the carbon
and the oxygen. But there'd be too many bonds
to this carbon right here. So the electrons in magenta are
going to move to this carbon down here on NAD+,
to this carbon. That would push these
electrons over here, and that would push
these electrons here off onto the nitrogen. So if we showed what happened
with the movement of all of those electrons over
here on the right-- this carbon right here
at the top already had a hydrogen bonded to it. And it gained another
hydrogen with two electrons. The two electrons were the
ones in magenta right here. This hydrogen right
here is this hydrogen. And the electrons in magenta
move over there to our ring. And then, we would also have
pi electrons moved over here. And then, we had a
lone pair of electrons move off onto the nitrogen. Like that. And then, we still had
some pi electrons over here on the right. This molecule is called NADH. So it's a gained the equivalent
of a hydride-- hydrogen with two electrons. And so we can see that
NAD+ gains two electrons. And gaining electrons
is reduction. So NAD+ is reduced to NADH. Since NAD+ is reduced, it
allows ethanol to be oxidized. And so we would refer to
NAD+ as an oxidizing agent. It is the oxidizing
agent for ethanol, even though it itself
is being reduced. So that's something that
confuses some general chemistry students sometimes. All right. So now over here, we
have the NADH molecule. And this reaction is
catalyzed by an enzyme, and the enzyme is
alcohol dehydrogenase. OK. So this is catalyzed by the
alcohol, dehydrogenase enzyme. Like that. And this reaction is reversible. So if we think about
the reverse reaction, we think about ethanal
being reduced to ethanol. And so if ethanal is
reduced to ethanol, NADH would be oxidized to NAD+. And so let's think
about a mechanism where we could oxidize NADH
and reduce the ethanal. If I took this lone pair of
electrons in the nitrogen and move it back in here, that
would push these electrons off over here. And now, the electrons-- in
magenta on this bond right here-- would attack
this carbon right here. So the electrons--
in magenta-- we could think about the
electrons as being right here. And you could think about
that as being a hydride-- so a hydrogen with
two electrons, giving it a negative
1 formal charge. And even though we've seen
in some earlier videos that hydride isn't necessarily
the best nucleophile. You could think about this as
being a nucleophilic attack, if it makes it easier for you,
because this carbon right here would be partially positive. The negatively charged electrons
would attack that carbon. And in doing so, that would
push these pi electrons off to then grab this proton here. And that would give you
your ethanol molecule, and that would convert
NADH back into NAD+. So you could think about
NADH as being oxidized. It is losing two electrons--
the electrons in magenta. Loss of electrons is oxidation. And since NADH is the agent
for the reduction of ethanal to ethanol, you
would say that NADH would be the reducing
agent for this example. And the best way to remember
that NADH is the reducing agent is-- it is the one that
has the hydrogen on it. So it has the hydride,
which is capable of being the agent for the reduction. So therefore, NADH is
the reducing agent. This NAD+, NADH conversion--
and vice versa-- is extremely important
in biochemistry. This happens in numerous
biochemical reactions. And so it's important
to understand what's happening with those
electrons on these molecules. Let's look at another
biochemical example of redox. And here, we have on
the left, phenyol. Right? So this is our phenol molecule. And once again, we're most
concerned about this carbon, the one that's attached
to this oxygen. And there are many ways
to oxidize phenols. So if we oxidize phenol with
something like the Jones Reagent-- with sodium
dichromate, sulfuric acid, and water-- would be
capable of oxidizing phenol to this molecule over
here on the right, which we call "benzoquinone." This right here is a
benzoquinone molecule. And just real fast, you could
see that this carbon right now has two bonds of carbon to
oxygen so it has been oxidized. So phenol can be
oxidized to benzoquinone using numerous organic reagents. Once you make benzoquinone,
you could reduce that to this molecule over
here on the right, which is called "hydroquinone." There are several,
again, organic reagents that can reduce benzoquinone
to hydroquinone. Let me change that
spelling there. And then, from hydroquinone, you
could oxidize hydroquinone back to benzoquinone pretty easily. And so once again,
in organic chemistry, there are lots of reagents that
can do these redox conversions. And in the body, you're
usually talking about the NAD+, NADH system. So we've just studied that. And if we look here
at this molecule, you can see it's a quinone. Right? So you can see the benzoquinone
portion of this molecule. And this is called "ubiquione."
"Ubi" referring to the fact that this is ubiquitous. This compound is
found everywhere. It's found in all
the cells in nature. And the other name for
this would be "coenzyme Q." This is a very important part
of the electron transport chain. And if we look at
ubiquinone-- going to this molecule over
here on the right-- you can see this is like a
hydroquinone analog here. So this is ubiquinol. These carbons are being reduced
from this chemical reaction that I've drawn here. So ubiquinone is being
reduced to ubiquinol. If ubiquinone is being
reduced, something else must be oxidized. All right. So the NADH is being
oxidized to NAD+. The NAD is the one that has
this hydride on here, which can serve as the reducing agent. So here NADH is acting as the
reducing agent-- the agent for the reduction of ubiquinone
to the ubiquinol molecule over here on the right. And so this is just
an oversimplification of part of the electron
transport chain where you're transporting
electrons, which eventually leads to oxidative
phosphorylation and also ATP synthesis, which, of
course, gives us energy. This isn't meant to be an
exhaustive detail of those biochemical processes, but it's
just to show you how you can analyze biochemistry using a
simple knowledge of organic chemistry and the importance
of NAD+ NADH in biological systems.