- [Voiceover] We've already
seen the general reaction for a Hydroboration-oxidation
and in the previous video we did this as one
of our practice problems. We started with this alkene
and we got this alcohol with the OH added on to the
less substituted carbon. Let's take a look at the
mechanism for this reaction. So in step one we add our borane BH3, and if you look down
here at the dot structure boron is sp2 hybridize
which means trigonal plane or geometry around the boron
and also an MTP orbital, which is capable of
accepting a pair of electrons because as you can see boron has only six electrons
around it and the fact that it lacks and octet makes it very reactive. Actually, borane can react with itself and that 's why we have the
THF here to stabilize it. So when borane approaches our alkene... Alright, so here's our alkene. So we have the two
methyl groups right here, and then we have the two
hydrogens on this carbon. Alright so here are the two hydrogens. The borane approaches the carbon on the left side of our double bond. So the boron gets closer to
the carbon on the left side, and one reason for that is
because these methyl groups are relatively bulky, right. So there's some steric
hindrance that prevents the boron from getting to close to the carbon on the right
side of the double bonds, and the pi electrons are
going to attack the boron. Right, so the pi electrons
are going to attack the empty orbital of the
boron and we're gonna form a bond between the
carbon on the left side of the double bond and the boron. So these pi electrons are
going to move into here, and as that bond between
this carbon and this boron is forming we are
withdrawing electron density from the carbon on the right. So I'm only going to put a
partial positive charge here, because this is pretty
much a concerted mechanism. This step is concerted but
as this bond forms right, we're increasing the partial
positive charge on this carbon and that triggers a hydride shift. Remember what hydride is. It's a hydrogen with two electrons, so a negative one formal charge. So we can think about a
hyrdride being right here. So let me mark these electrons in blue. Right, so these electrons down
here in blue are attracted to the developing partial positive charge. Alright so we're going to
form a bond right here. Between this carbon,
right, between this carbon and the hydrogen as the
electrons in blue move in here. So the formation of this
partial positive charge triggers the hydride shift and
we move those electrons in blue there to form a bond. So let's draw the product. So on the left side of where
the double bond used to be, we would have BH2 and on the
right side we would have H. We would have a methyl group
coming out at us in space and a methyl group going
away from us in space. On the left side we would have
a hydrogen coming out at us and a hydrogen going away from us. So let's follow those electrons along. The electrons in magenta
right here form this bond between the carbon and the
boron and the formation of the carbon-boron bond
triggers the hydride shift. So the electrons in blue move
into here and we get that. Alright later in this
mechanism we'll see that the OH is gonna go where the boron is, right. So the OH is going to go
there and so now we can talk about the regiochemistry
and the stereochemistry for this reaction. So let's first think about regiochemistry. Why does the OH add on to
the less substituted carbon? Well that's because of two reasons, right. One reason would be the
steric hindrance, right. So these methyl groups prevent the borane from getting on or getting
close to the carbon on the right side of the double bond. So steric hindrance is one reason, and also the formation of the, the developing partial
charge on this carbon. It's better stabilized by the presence of these methyl groups, right. So, we have two reasons steric hindrance and the stabilizing
factor of these methyls. Right, stabilizing the developing
partially positive charge that explains why the boron adds on to the carbon on the left
side of the double bonds, and then eventually where
of course the OH goes. So that explains the regiochemistry, and the stereochemistry we
see the OH and the H add on to the same side because this
is pretty much concerted. Alright, this pretty much
happens at the same time and so your stereochemistry is locked in at this portion of your mechanism. Let's continue on with the mechanism. Let me redraw this guy right here. So this is a little bit too complicated. Let me make it a little
bit easier to look at. So we would have our methyl groups right, and then we would have our BH2 right here. This process occurs two more times. Alright, repeat times two because there are two more hydrogens on the boron, and so we actually form a trialkylborane. So let me draw in the boron
with three alkyl groups on it. So it should look like this
to form a trialkylborane. Some textbooks just leave
it as a monoalkyl borane and proceed to the oxidation
part of this reaction, but most of the time
it's a trialkylborane. So that's what I'm gonna show you here. When you move on to the oxidation step, remember this is the second step here. You have hydrogen peroxide
and you have hydroxide ions. So let's draw those out. Alright, we have some hydrogen peroxides. Let me draw the dot structure
for hydrogen peroxide. Put in low end pairs of
electrons on the oxygens, and we have hydroxide so OH minus. Hydroxide's gonna function as a base. It's gonna take a proton
from hydrogen peroxide leaving these electrons
behind on the oxygen. So we would make the hydro peroxide ion. So I'm sketching that in over here. Three lone pairs of
electrons on the oxygen on the right therefore a
negative one formal charge. So we can show these electrons in magenta coming off on to the oxygen. So we have the hydro peroxide
ion which is gonna function as a nucleophile and
our nucleophile is going to attack the empty orbital of our borons. The nucleophile attacks
the trialkylborane, and let's show the result of that. So, now there's a bond between
the boron and the oxygen. Right, then there's an
oxygen oxygen bond and then a hydrogen here and
let me draw alone pairs of electrons on the oxygens the
lone pairs of electrons here and then boron still has
our three alkyl groups. So, I'm sketching in the
alkyl groups here like that. The next step of the mechanism... Oh, we have a negative one
formal charge on the boron here. The next step is the
migration of an alkyl group. So this is the weird part. Alright so these electrons right here are actually going to form
a bond with the oxygen. At the same time these electrons are gonna come off on to this oxygen. So, we form hydroxide. Let me go ahead and show that first. That's maybe the easier part to understand of what's going on here. So we have three long pairs
of electrons on the oxygen, negative one formal charge, we're gonna make these electrons green. These electrons in green here
come off on to the oxygen. So the oxygen oxygen bond is weak. So, it's relatively
easy to break this bond, and let me highlight the
other electrons here. Well, these electrons in
magenta formed this bond between the oxygen and the boron, and now we get our alkyl group migration and I'll show these electrons in the blue. So the electrons in blue
are forming a bond between this carbon and this oxygen. So let me draw that out. It's pretty hard to see. Let me go ahead and draw
what we have and then we'll highlight some electrons here. So now we have our oxygen
bonded to this group and our boron has two alkyl groups still bonded to it like that. So let's follow those electrons. The electrons in magenta represent the bond between the oxygen and the boron, and the electrons in blue, right, would be these electrons right here. So it's this carbon is
now bonded to this oxygen. So the migration of the alkyl
group removes the formal charge on the boron and it breaks the weak oxygen oxygen bond and
kicks off hydroxide. Alright so now this process
happens two more times. Alright cause we have these
two other alkyl groups, and so when that happens
two more times we get, let me go ahead and draw
it in, a trialkylborane. So we'd have an oxygen
here and then we have our group coming off of
that and then over here we would have our oxygen and then we have our group coming off of that
and then also down here. Alright, our next step is the hydroxide anion functions as a nucleophile. So the hydroxide attacks the boron. Once again our boron has an empty orbital. So nucleophilic attack
let's draw the results of our nucleophilic attack. Now we have OH bonded to the boron and the boron still has all
of these groups around it. So let me sketch all of those in, and you can see why this mechanism is getting rather
cumbersome at this point. Right, drawing in all these
groups is a little bit annoying here but we still have a negative one. I should say we have a
negative one formal charge and a boron and we still
have some lone pairs of electrons on this oxygen and
I'm putting those in because in the next step to get rid of the negative one formal charge
these electrons come off on to the oxygen and that would form alkoxide anion. Now we have this oxygen would have a... Let me do a better job of
drawing in our alkoxide anions. So we'd have three lone pairs
of electrons on our oxygen. That's a negative one formal charge, and let me highlight those electrons. Alright, so these electrons
in here in magenta come off on to the oxygen and
reform our alkoxide anion. We are almost done, right. So in the last step we have water present. So water can donate a proton
to our alkoxide anion. So the alkoxide anion picks
the proton up from water. We protonate the alkoxide anion. We form our alcohol and
so we're finally done. Very long mechanism a lot
of drawing but we formed the alcohol that we know cause we know the OH added on to, let me
highlight it here, this carbon. So again you could
probably do this mechanism just doing the monoalkyl borane and I'm sure some professors
will let you do that. Most of the time it's the triakylborane. So I drew all this out
even though it was... It definitely got a little tedious here, but there's your mechanism
for hydoboration-oxidation.