Welcome back. I now want to play a little
bit of devil's advocate with myself. I made this argument where
I show that for the exact identical house, if these are
the numbers -- I mean you'd have to work it out based on
your market, and what the numbers are at the time. But if this is the comparable
rent for a $1 million house, I showed you that for the $1
million house you're burning $40,000 a year. This is not money that is
going to build equity. This not money that's going to
the principal of your house. This is money that just going
out of your pocket, you'll never see again. In a way, and actually not in
a way, in reality, you can view this $40,000 as rent on the
money that you borrowed. Interest is nothing but rent. So when you have an asset, if
the asset is cash, the rent on it is interest. If the asset is
a house, the rent on it is your monthly rent payment. So when you think of it this
way, when people say home ownership, they really aren't
homeowners yet. You're not a homeowner until
you don't have debt. You are a money renter. So your choice is either to be
a money renter here, or to be a house renter here. And I show that you are burning almost double the money. But then there's the argument of
well, there are advantages, still, to buying this house. And what are they? Well one example is, in this
situation, if I did get a fixed-rate mortgage -- and we
learned, when you look at all those adjustable-rate mortgages,
we know that a lot of people didn't. But if I have a fixed-rate
mortgage, I know what my payment is for the foreseeable
future, for the next 30 years. While my landlord, in this
case, they could keep raising my rent. So this might look good right
now, but what if my landlord raised the rent to, I don't
know, $3,500 a month. Well then, out of your pocket,
0.5 times 12, you'd be spending $42,000 a year. And then of course you get the
interest from the money that you put in the bank. Plus 10. Oh, minus 10 actually, sorry. So in that case, if the rent
goes up, then out of your pocket is $32,000 every year. Right? Or what if the interest that
you get on your cash in the bank goes down? Then this $10,000 thousand
will become lower. But as we can see, the rent
would have to go up a lot to make up for $41,000, to make
this a break-even situation. Let's figure out how much
it would have to go up. So in this first scenario, in
order for your net outflow to be $41,500, assuming you're
getting $10,000 from the money in the bank, your rent would
have to be $51,500. Right? Because you're getting $10,000
from the bank. And so divided by 12, your rent
would have to be $4,300 in this situation to make this
a break-even proposition. This is another way
to view it. If I were to buy the house,
and if I were to move, how much would I have to rent this
house out for, in order to not be losing money every month? Well I would have to rent it out
for $4,300 a month, even though maybe the market rents
are only at $3,000. And there is another devil's
advocate argument. And that's, well, housing -- and
this is something that you heard a lot about
three years ago. And a lot of these people aren't
talking as much now. But they would say, housing has
never -- housing has done nothing but gone up, and I will
build equity just from housing appreciation. So how much does my house have
to appreciate every year? Well, to make up this
difference-- $41,500 minus 26-- so to make up that $15,500
difference every year, this is $15,500 favorable. My house would have to
appreciate by a comparable amount, right? So how much appreciation
is that on my house? Well that's a $1 million
house, right? So $15,500 appreciation
on a $1 million house. I'm doing everything in
thousands, so 1,000 thousands is a million. So that's only 1.5%
appreciation. So if my house appreciates by
1.5%, that's it-- 1.5%. If my house just appreciates by
1.5%, I'm going to make up this $15,500. And so it is worth it for me. It is worth it for me to blow
this money by having kind of an increased -- by renting the
money for more than I would have to pay to rent the house. And that might sound like a very
reasonable proposition, that the house will appreciate
by 1.5%. From 2001 to 2005, 2006, houses
were appreciating like 10%, 15% a year. So it seemed -- and a real
estate agent would often do this very math with you, and
say, well, you're definitely going to get 1.5%. In fact, you're probably going
to get 10% appreciation. And you're going to make
much more than this. But think about, in the
presentation of the balance sheet and leverage, what happens
if housing prices go down by 1.5%? What happens if it's
minus 1.5%? Well, then you're going to spend
this much to rent the money, right? And you're not going
to gain this much. You're going to lose this
much every year. And so the proposition
becomes even worse. So this is a big deal. Now that, I think, on a
nationwide basis, a lot of the housing indices show that
housing prices have gone down, I think by 6%. That's what the Case-Shiller
index says. 6% is a lot. Especially on a $1 million
house, that's $60,000 a year that's just evaporating. That's wealth that someone
thought they had, that's just disappearing out of
their equity. So this is rationale of pay more
to rent the money for a house than to rent the
house is justified if housing prices go up. It becomes 10 times worse when
housing prices are flat. Or, God forbid, if housing
prices actually go down. And now we see that housing
prices actually go down. In the last couple of years
especially, in the areas where, like the Bay Area, or
Florida, or California, especially Southern California, where this is happening. And back even two or three years
ago, when people used to make this argument. People used to make the
argument, well you know, my house just has to go up 1% or
2% percent, and I'm going to make up the difference. I'd say well, why is
your house going to go up 1% or 2% percent? I mean, there has to be some
reason why next year someone's willing to pay 2% more
for that house. Is it because rents are going
up 2% a year, so the income stream is going to
be 2% higher? And actually in the Bay Area,
from 2001 to roughly 2003, rents were going down. And there were actually
people moving out. All the tech workers were
getting laid off. You had a lot of programming
jobs being outsourced to India and wherever else. So you had this whole situation
where the population was actually decreasing. Demand for housing
was going down. But for some reason housing
prices were going up. So people said well, they've
been going up for the last five years, so they'll
continue. And they've never gone down,
et cetera, et cetera. But it didn't make an
economic argument. And I'll show in a future video
that the only reason why housing prices did go up is that
it just became easier and easier and easier
to buy a house. The standards that banks used
for giving out a loan became lower and lower and lower. There are actually examples in
Southern California, and in San Jose and some of the
suburbs, where people who had incomes of $30,000 or
$40,000 a year. The bank actually gave them a
$1 million loan to buy a $1 million house, based
on stated income. There's things called stated
income loans, where you just tell the bank what you earn. You don't have to prove
it to them. And so every year that went by,
it just became easier and easier and easier. More and more people just
thought that housing always appreciates. So that's why they want to pay
more and more to essentially rent the money for a house. And this became a
self-fulfilling prophecy. But as we see on the
way down, it works completely against you. So in the situation where we
are now, where nationwide housing prices are actually
declining-- and actually they will decline until this
rent-versus-buy equation starts to make a little bit more
sense-- it really hurts the home buyer. And what's even worse, and this
is kind of adding insult to injury, is that this guy,
if I bought this house, and all of a sudden I lose my job,
and I can't pay the house back, I might lose my entire
$250,000 down payment because maybe I can't sell the
house, or the house is selling for less. Or maybe I want to move, and
there's no one out there who can buy a house because the
banks all of a sudden got smart again, and realized that
they should become more serious in terms of who
they give money to. And so I'm stuck holding this
house, and my flexibility in terms of where I can
move is limited. Actually a friend of mine was
telling me that they've actually done studies. And there's a correlation
between unemployment and home ownership. Because when you own a home, you
have less flexibility in looking for a job. If I have a house in San Jose
but there's a job in LA, I might not be able to take
that job because I can't sell my house. Or I might not even want to
look for a job in LA. While the renter, of course,
my lease ends and I leave. So this is just a rough sense
of the rent versus buy. And I know I get very
impassioned about this. But that's just because
I explain this a lot. And when I'm at parties and
I start talking about the calculations, people's
eyes glaze over. But I made this video now
and I'll just tell people to watch it. See you in the next video.