- In the last video, we
talked about how people listening to a pitch provide
feedback to the storyteller. Now, we're going to turn the tables and look at the feedback process from the point of view of the storyteller, the one receiving the feedback. At Pixar, we call each piece
of feedback you receive a note. Receiving critical feedback can
be really, really difficult. You've worked really hard pouring your heart and
soul into your pitch only to be met with criticism. So it's important to get
comfortable with criticism. - When I'm editing a sequence, I find it helpful to ask for
the opinion of people I trust and it's always helpful to get feedback. I don't take it personally. I find it very useful. The reason they're giving me feedback is only to improve the scene and that's what everyone wants to do when we're collaborating
together on making a film. - When someone says,
this just isn't working, this is too long, it's not funny, that's the one that used
to kill me, it's not funny. I tried to make it funny. I thought it was gonna be funny and then here it is and no one laughs. Everyone's just sitting, staring at you and you can hear grass grow
and snails crawl at that point because it's just, it's
excruciating but that's okay. Everyone goes through it. - Originally, I think I got confused and thought that it was about
me but it's not about me. It's about the movie. If the feedback, the notes are about a way to make the film better then everybody wins and it doesn't help for
me to get my ego involved to defend something that doesn't work just because it was my idea. - The important thing is to remember that the purpose of the feedback is to make your story even better. Try not to take it personally
but rather focus on the work. At Pixar, everyone is working
to make the story better. Not taking criticism
personally is so important, it has become a mantra. Focus on the work, not the person. After you've gotten notes, start by taking a step
back to analyze them. Different artists approach
this in different ways. - The main thing after a pitch is you just gotta come down off of it because you're sweating,
your heart is pounding because you are performing your work in front of a lot of people and so the main thing is just
find a way to relax afterwards and for me, I used to go shoot
around, shoot some hoops. - Sleeping on it also helps too. Putting some distance between
you and your work really helps 'cause you can be staring at something. For me, if I work on a drawing
for more than a couple hours, I start to hate it no matter what and I just need to put some
space between me and it. So that usually helps
too just to take a break. - And so you sit down and
you look at the boards that you've done and you
think about questions. What could I do to make this clearer? What could I do to make this funnier? And for me, a lot of this
comes down to list making. I'll just sit and make lists. What could be funnier? I will just sit and
come up with 100 things and just don't even think
about it, just write it down to see if I can conjure up
something that's funnier. - Some notes might be easy to address and some might be harder. I like to start with the easy notes first like what if you made this
character bigger in the frame or how about swapping these two drawings? Addressing the easy notes first helps me feel like I'm making progress and gives me more courage to tackle the more difficult issues later. When considering suggested
changes, make sure they stay true to what you're trying
to say in your story. Keep in mind that your
job as a storyteller is not to respond to each individual note but rather look for
the spirit of the note, the underlying problem
the note is a reaction to. - There's oftentimes a lot of
ways to solve these problems but what's the spirit of the note and usually the spirit of
the note's something like, the clarity's not there or the emotional heft between
two characters is not there. Well, I wanna show emotional heft. There's 10 ways to do it and especially if you as a story artist can bring something of
your own unique self to solving that, that's great. - So for example, on Incredibles, Brad was getting a lot of
notes and a lot of feedback for this one particular
shot in The Incredibles where Bob and Helen are having
an argument about the family and for a long time, the feedback was that Bob looked like he was domineering and overpowering Helen and it felt wrong to the audience. They felt like Bob was
too aggressive to Helen. So the feedback suggestions was maybe they could be on the beach or in a different location but really, Brad looked
at the spirit of the note which was the two characters visually didn't seem like they
were on the same level but in his head, they
were on the same level. He just had to convey that visually. So what you will see in the final movie is that when she yells at
him, it's not about you, she grows physically and
she becomes taller than him and that was the only
thing that Brad changed and the feedback afterwards
was great and it wasn't, he didn't do exactly what
the notes told him to do. He just looked at the spirit of the note and he addressed it and
he fixed the problem. - Once you've revised your
story and your drawings, it's time to repitch. Don't be surprised if you have
to pitch, revise and repitch a few times before it feels right. Andrew Stanton likes to say,
fail early and fail often. The more you pitch, the
better your story will become.