- [Voiceover] What I've drawn for you here is the human brain. And this is what you would see if you were looking at someone and they were standing in profile, or if they were standing
sideways in front of you. So this would be the front of their head, so their eyes, and their nose and mouth would be located down here. This would be the back of their head. And this would be the top. And then down here would be the bottom. And we refer to this area,
this big one right here, which is the first
thing that you would see if you were just looking at
the outer portion of the brain, we call this the cerebral cortex. And you might notice something
about the cerebral cortex right away, which is that it looks kind of wrinkly. And it actually is. Rather than having a smooth surface, it actually has a ton of bumps and folds. And this is actually extremely useful, because it allows the cerebral cortex to have a greater surface area. It allows it to have
room for more neurons. It gives it an increased cellular mass. We usually split the cerebral cortex up in to four different hemispheres. The first is the frontal lobe, which I'm shading in blue right here. The next area is the parietal lobe, which is back here, towards
the top and the back end. We also have the occipital lobe, which I'm going to color in pink. And then finally we
have the temporal lobe, which I'll draw in violet right here. The frontal lobe is comprised
of two main regions. Those include the motor
strip or the motor cortex, as well as the prefrontal cortex. The motor cortex or the
motor strip is responsible for our body movements. In fact, if you could
peel back someone's skull and electrically stimulate different areas of the motor cortex, you could make someone's
hand twitch or their leg move just by stimulating that
area on their brain. The frontal lobe also contains
the prefrontal cortex, and this is the part of the
brain that's responsible for what we refer to
as executive functions. Things like thinking and problem solving all take place in the prefrontal cortex. Not only that, but it also
helps to supervise and direct all of the other areas of our brain. Another part of the frontal
lobe that's worth mentioning is referred to as Broca's area. And this is a part of the
brain that's associated with speech production. Let's move on to this
yellowish-orange portion here, which we said was the parietal lobe. And this part of the cerebral
cortex is also important for a number of different tasks. One important part of the parietal lobe is the somatosensory cortex. And this is the part of your brain that's associated with feeling. And by that I don't
mean emotional feeling. What I actually mean is
that this part of the brain receives information
from all over your body about touch, and pressure,
and temperature, and pain. So the motor cortex would
help us reach forward and grab a cup of coffee, but the somatosensory cortex
is what would allow us to feel the pressure of that coffee cup or tell us how hot it is. And you might be thinking to yourself that these two things seem like
they're intimately related, and they are. In fact, even though we say that they're in different
lobes of the brain, they're actually right next to each other. So this side of the brain,
to this side of the crevice, within the frontal lobe
is the motor cortex. And right next to it,
in the parietal portion towards the back, is the
somatosensory cortex. And together they can be thought about as the sensorimotor cortex. Our parietal lobe is also responsible for spatial processing,
or spatial manipulation. And by that I mean that it helps to orient yourself
in three-dimensional space. But this part of the
brain doesn't only help us understand where we are in space, but it helps us to understand the space around us more generally. For example, if I wanted to reach out and grab a cup of coffee
that's in front of me, I could use my prefrontal
cortex to plan the movement and my motor cortex to
complete that movement, but I also need my
parietal cortex to tell me where that coffee cup is in front of me. And without that, I
wouldn't actually be able to reach out and pick it up. Other things like knowing how to navigate around your house or your town, that's also what we
mean when we talk about spatial manipulation
or spatial processing. Our occipital lobe, which
is in the back of our brain, is responsible for
things related to vision. We may see with our eyes that
are in the front of our head, but after collecting that information from the world around us, that information actually gets transported all the way to the back of
our brain for processing. So let's put vision right here. Another term that you might hear in association with the occipital lobe is the term striate cortex. And this simple refers to the fact that if you looked at the occipital lobe under the microscope, if
you looked at those cells, that they would appear
striped or striated. The last lobe of the brain
is the temporal cortex, and that's in violet. And this is the part of the
brain that's responsible for auditory processing. As was the case with vision
in our occipital lobe, information comes in through our ears, but it is processed in our
brain, in our temporal cortex. Another important area
in the temporal cortex is what's referred to as Wernicke's area. And when we talked about
the frontal cortex, we talked about Broca's area, which we said was responsible
for speech production. Well, Wernicke's area is
responsible for language reception and language comprehension. Before I end this video, I just wanna take a moment to point out that the different lobes of the brain do a lot more than just the
things that I've listed here. However, in general, these are the things that
you should think about whenever you think about the
different lobes of the brain.