(jazzy piano music) - [Steven] One of the most powerful scenes in the chapel is The Lamentation. Christ has been crucified,
he's been taken down off the cross and he's now being mourned by his mother, by his followers. - [Beth] And that word
that we use for this scene, lamentation, comes from the
word to lament, to grieve. - [Steven] This is one of the
saddest images I've ever seen. We have Mary holding her dead son and it reminds us of a
scene that's across the wall of the Nativity, where
there is this tenderness and this relationship between
Mary and her infant son. And now we see Mary again
holding her adult, now dead son. - [Beth] On her lap, the
way she does as a mother, when he's a child. Look at how she's raised her
right knee to prop him up. Look at how she bends forward. - [Steven] And twists her body. - [Beth] And puts her arms around him, one hand on his shoulder,
another on his chest. She leans forward as if to
plead with him to wake up, as if in disbelief that
this could have happened. - [Steven] The idea of
representing Christ as dead is a modern idea, putting emphasis on Christ as physical, as human. At Christ's feet we see Mary Magdalene with her typical read hair, who is attending to his feet and there's a real sense
of tenderness there. Giotto is so interested in naturalism that he's willing to show two figures where we only see the backs. We would never have seen
this in the Medieval period. - [Beth] And that's because
those figures provide no information to the narrative. All that they do is frame Christ and Mary. They draw our eye to those
most important figures. - [Steven] We look at Christ and Mary, as they're looking at Christ and Mary. - [Beth] They also help to
create an illusion of space. It's amazing to me how
close they are to us. Their bottoms almost
move out into our space. Giotto makes it clear that these figures are looking in, and
therefore there's space here for the human figures to occupy. - [Steven] But there are other than human figures here, as well. There are angels. But these angels are not detached figures. They mourn as we mourn. They rend their clothing,
they tear at themselves, they pull their hair. They are in agony. - [Beth] And they're foreshortened, so like the figures
with their backs to us, they assist in Giotto's
creating an illusion of space. And like the angels above them, the human figures display
their grief in different ways. Some are sad and resigned
and keep to themselves. Other figures throw their arms out. There's a real interest in individuality in the different ways that
people experience emotion. The feet of the figure on the far right, that sense of gravity
and weight of a figure really standing on the ground, just like the figures who are sitting. Not the Medieval floating figures
that we've come to expect. We're struck by the
simplicity of the composition. Giotto's placing all of this
emphasis on the figures. He simplified the background. But unlike a Medieval image
where we might expect to see the most important figure,
Christ, in the center, Giotto's moved him off to the left. The landscape is in
service of drawing our eye down toward Christ. That rocky hill that forms the landscape, that moves our eye down
to Mary and Christ. - [Steven] And at the top, there's a tree. And the tree might look dead, but of course, it might also be winter. And that tree might grow
leaves again in the spring, and it is an analogy to Christ and his eventual resurrection. That ground is used for several purposes. To root those figures,
but also to allow us to move out of the picture. As we move from The Lamentation, we move to the next image, which is the scene where
Christ says do not touch me, when Mary Magdalene recognizes him as he has been resurrected. And you'll notice that Giotto
has continued that mountain. Our eye then moves down, and so there is this visual relationship that is drawn between Christ's death, Christ's mourning, and Christ's resurrection by
the landscape that frames them. In the trompe l'oeil
depictions of inset stone, there is another painted scene
in the little quatrefoil. - [Beth] Throughout
the chapel we see this. An Old Testament scene paired
with the New Testament, specifically Old Testament
scenes that in some way prefigured the life of Christ. And here we see Jonah. - [Steven] Jonah is
swallowed by this giant fish, by this whale, prays for forgiveness, having betrayed God and is
delivered from this fish. It is a perfect Old Testament analogy to the New Testament story
of Christ's crucifixion and ultimate resurrection. It's a tour de force of emotion. It's such an expression of
this late Medieval period that is moving towards what we will eventually call the Renaissance. (jazzy piano music)