Voiceover: Another
carboxylic acid derivative is the amide functional group, and you'll hear many different ways to pronounce this functional group. I usually say "[am-ide]," but I've heard "[am-ids],"
or "[ay-mides]," or, however you want to say it. To me, it's not really that big of a deal; it seems to be more where you're from, in terms of how you pronounce it. So if our goal is to name
this two-carbon amide over here on the right, let's start with the
two-carbon carboxylic acid, over here on the left. So we have two carbons, and if you think about the IUPAC name, so two carbons, this
would be ethanoic acid, to name the corresponding amide, we're going to drop the ending. So we're going to drop the "oic acid," and add on "amide." So, let's go ahead and write that. So, we would drop the "oic
acid," and add on "amide," so "ethanamide," or "ethanamid,"
is what you could call this molecule over here, on the right. Of course, most people don't
call this "ethanoic acid"; most people call this "acetic acid." So, if we think about naming
this derived from acetic acid, let's go ahead and write that down, if we drop the ending this time, we don't have an extra "o." so we just have this "ic," so we're gonna drop the "ic acid," and add "amide" onto that, so we would make "acetomide," if we think about over here, or, "acetomid," however
you want to say it. So, once again, think
about dropping the ending, and adding "amide" on. So acetomide is an example of a primary amide, so
this is a primary amide, and the way I like to think about this, is this nitrogen here is
bonded to only one carbon, the carbon right here, so that makes this primary. If you wanna think about
naming this one down here, this time, the nitrogen
is bonded to two carbons, the carbon in our carbon EEL, and also this carbon over here. And so, this one is an
example of a secondary amide, a nitrogen bonded to two carbons. If we think about the
parent carboxylic acid, so over here, one, two,
three carboxylic acid, three carbons in this carboxylic acid. So the IUPAC name would
be "propanoic acid," so let's go ahead and
write out "propanoic acid." We're gonna use this as the base for the amide on the right. So, once again, we're gonna drop the "oic acid" ending, just like we did up here, and so we drop the "oic acid" ending, and add on "amide," so
we have "propanamide," so let's go ahead and write that. So over here on the right,
we would have propanamide, or propanamid, like that. And then, that takes care of, if you will, this portion of the molecule. Now we still have this
methyl group, right here, to worry about, and that
methyl group is coming off of this nitrogen here, so the methyl group coming
off of this nitrogen. And the way we show that,
is to put an "N" here, and then a "methyl," so
"N-methyl-propanamide," tells us that we have a methyl group coming off of the nitrogen in our amide, and, so that's how it's done. Alright, let's look at some more examples, so two more examples
for amides right here, and let's see how to name them. Let's start with the one on the left: So, for this one, if I think
about the carboxylic acid, it'd be a one, two, three, four; so four-carbon carboxylic acid; the IUPAC name is "butanoic acid." So, we drop the "oic acid"
part, and add on "amide," so it'd be "butanamide." So let's go ahead, and write that in. So this would be, "butanamide." And then, we have to think about what else is attached
to this nitrogen, here. So, the nitrogen in our amide right here, has a methyl group here, and another methyl group here, so two methyl groups. So this time, we're gonna
write, "N, N-dimethyl," so we have two methyl groups; each one of those methyl groups is attached to that nitrogen, so "N, N-dimethyl-butanamide" would be the name for this molecule. In terms of classifying it, so in terms of classifying
this amide here, this would actually be a tertiary amide, because this nitrogen is attached to one, two, three other carbons, and so it's a tertiary amide. Alright, let's look at naming one more, so this one over here, on the right. And if I think about the carboxylic acid, from which this is derived, so you have to use your
imagination a little bit, so if I think about this portion, instead of the nitrogen
here, if I had an OH, that would be benzoic acid. So I'm just gonna go ahead,
and write that right here. So, "benzoic acid." We know we're gonna drop the ending, we're gonna drop the "oic acid" part, and add "amide," so it'd be "benzamide." So let's go ahead and write that. So it has our parent name here, so we would have "benzamide" here. And then, let's think
about what else we have: we have a nitrogen, and
we have a methyl group, one methyl group bonded to that nitrogen, and then we have another methyl group over here on the ring. So let's go ahead, and number the ring, and see where our other methyl group is. So our other methyl group, if we number our ring, this would be carbon one, if we think about this as
being like benzoic acid. So if we're numbering our ring, this would be carbon one, and then carbon two, carbon
three, and carbon four. So we have a methyl group at carbon four, and we also have a methyl group
coming off of our nitrogen. So this time, we're going to write, let me go ahead and write here, this'll be "N, 4-dimethyl," so we have "N, 4-dimethyl-benzamide," as our name for this molecule. So, notice the difference. So here we have a methyl group, on our nitrogen, right here, and we have a methyl group
coming off of carbon four, so that's where our dimethyl comes from. For this one, we have N, and another N, because both of our methyl groups are coming off of the nitrogen in the example on the left, and so it's just useful to contrast these two molecules, when we're thinking about nomenclature. In terms of physical properties of amides, let's look at a little diagram
here, showing acetamide. So we have our amide right
here, and physical properties, in terms of what state of matter is this, acetamide is actually a solid, at room temperature and pressure, and so this is a solid. It has a lot of hydrogen bonding: so, we could think about
some hydrogen bonding here, we could think about some
hydrogen bonding here; there are lots of opportunities
for hydrogen bonding. So partial negative oxygen,
partial positive hydrogen, bonded to this nitrogen, which is withdrawing some electron density from this hydrogen. So, lots of opportunities
for hydrogen bonding. Acetamide is solid at room temperature, and so its melting point
turns out to be, approximately 82 degrees Celsius, so
that's its melting point; its boiling point is actually much higher, so, somewhere around
221 degrees, so higher. This is actually the melting point, and the boiling point being much higher, due to the very strong
inter-molecular forces that are present between amide molecules. In terms of solubility of amides in water, small amides are definitely soluble. So if I think about water coming along. Let's go ahead a draw water in here. Water is a polar molecule: so partial negative, partial positive. So like dissolves like: this polar amide will
dissolve in polar water, you can think about some hydrogen bonding going on right here,
so like dissolves like. And there's also a resonance
property to amides, so I won't get too much into resonance, but there's a lone pair of
electrons on this nitrogen, which can move into here, pushing these electrons
off onto the oxygen, giving you a plus one formal
charge on your nitrogen, and a negative one formal
charge one your oxygen. And so, amides can be polar as well; this also can explain the solubility of acetamides in water here. So small amides can be soluble in water, but of course, as we've been
discussing in these videos, as you increase this R group, as you increase the number of carbons, if you turn this into an R group, the more carbons you have, the more non-polar
[unintelligible] you have, so you would decrease the solubility of amides as you do that. So, we'll talk much more about the resonance structure for amides in future videos, because
it is extremely important for things like reactivity,
and chemical reactions