(music) ("In The Sky With
Diamonds" by Scalding Lucy) Steven: We're in
Washington D.C. on the mall at the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial. Beth: Which is situated right between the Washington Monument
and the Lincoln Memorial. Maya Lin, the architect of the memorial sought about uniting the
memorial to the nation's past, bringing together the
past and the present. Steven: It's this very long series of slabs of stone, this
highly-reflective black granite that actually points to
both of those monuments. Beth: Although the
architect didn't like to refer to these as walls,
in a way they are walls, but it's very thin, sunk into the ground and inscribed with the names of the servicemen who died
in the Vietnam War. Steven: Now there are
more than 58,000 names and in fact, more names are being added. It is overwhelming in
the density of names. What happens as you walk down this path, you sink into the earth. The earth opens up and
reveals these names. Because the surface of the
stone is so reflective, it becomes a mirror and really all that seems to have substance is the rougher surface of
the names themselves. Beth: Maya Lin's idea
was that it was the names that were the reality, the
substance of the monument and that the reflectivity of the granite opened up into another world
that we could not enter, but which was there for us to see. Steven: She describes when
she first visited the site that she wanted to reveal that edge. Beth: In fact, she said,
"I had a simple impulse to cut into the earth. I
imagined taking a knife and cutting into the earth, opening it up and initial violence and pain
that in time would heal." She writes,"That the
experience of the monument would help people to come to terms with the death of their loved ones." Steven: There is a real
journey involved here. You walk down in, you find the name of your loved one embedded within the chronological sequence of the death of all of these soldiers,
and then you walk back out. Beth: That's right. In the center, the chronology begins and
goes down toward the right as we're facing the wall
and then picks up again on the low edge of the left side and then towards the center again. As we move down the
center, the path widens and the granite rises more
than 10 feet above us. Steven: The names become a symbol of this person multiplied
more than 58,000 times, but even though you've
got that abstraction, you also have this very concrete reality. You have this place for family to come, to gather, to reflect on that name. Beth: Maya Lin talks about the name as an abstraction that in fact, means more to family and loved ones than a picture. The picture represents someone at a particular time and a particular place as one moment in their
lives whereas a name might recall everything about that person. Steven: There is this
powerful accumulation of all of the names. As you descend, as you walk
into the densest middle of the monument, it becomes
absolutely overwhelming. Beth: It's a very
different experience than most previous war memorials. When we think about the
history of war memorials, we often think about memorials
to military heroes like the monument to Lord
Nelson in Trafalgar Square or we might think about
the Shaw memorial by Augustus Saint-Gaudens
in the National Gallery where you have a hero leading an anonymous army with an allegorical figure representing peace and death, this combination of allegory and heroism that's usually in memorials, it's completely absent here. Steven: How can one create
a meaningful monument in the late 20th century? What does it mean to strip away all of the representational form? What does it mean to create something so subconsciously abstract and yet also so powerful and so meaningful? Beth: Evidently the
committee that judged this decided that this
abstraction would be best. It's interesting to think
about how the committee didn't know who was Maya Lin was. There were 1,400 entries,
completely anonymous. Maya Lin at that point, was
an undergraduate at Yale, she was an architecture student,
she's an Asian American. It's interesting to think about what might have happened had they known who this application was from. Steven: Once her identity
had been revealed, there was real backlash and racism. There was backlash also
about the abstraction. Ultimately that was resolved by a much more naturalistic sculpture adjacent to the main memorial. Beth: One that shows soldiers in a very naturalistic way,
three-dimensionally, which is also powerful, but in a way that feels much more public
and far less intimate. Steven: Maya Lin was brilliant in creating a public space and yet
tremendous intimacy. We can feel those names inscribed. The active reading is to come close, to internalize those names. Maya Lin's Vietnam
Memorial is one of the most successful memorials in the nation. Beth: And apparently
one of the most visited monuments in Washington D.C. In an article that was
published much later, writing about her ideas for the monument, Maya Lin said, "It would
be an interface between our world and the quieter, darker, more peaceful world beyond. I chose black granite in order to make the surface reflective and peaceful. I never looked at the memorial as a wall, an object, but as an edge to the earth, an opened side. The mirrored sect would double the size of the
park creating two worlds; one we are part of and
one we cannot enter." Steven: Even that black
granite created controversy. She also talked about how she couldn't expect granite that came from Canada or from Sweden, two countries that had really good quality black granite because there was too much
political baggage because draft dodgers had gone to
both of those countries. Beth: One opponent of her design said, "One needs no artistic education to see this memorial designed for what it is, a black scar and a hole
hidden, as if out of shame." No, I think this is
very different than what Maya Lin intended for the wall. She specifically took
an apolitical approach and wanted the design to
be about those veterans who had sacrificed their
lives and not about the political controversy at all; not about whether if the was was something shameful or something honorable. Steven: The country had
not only fought the war, but then fought itself over
the meaning of the war. Maya Lin was very wise
in sidestepping that and putting to the fore simply the names, the numerical power of all those fallen. Beth: And she wrote,
"The wall dematerializes of the form and allows the names to become the object. Pure and reflective surfaces that would allow visitors the chance to see
themselves with the name." (music) ("In The Sky With
Diamonds" by Scalding Lucy)