Voiceover: We're looking at a figure known as the Peplos Kore in the
Acropolis Museum in Athens. Now this is one of the funny things that happens in art history. Things get named based on
original thoughts about something. But then when later research is done that name doesn't really work anymore. Voiceover: But we keep the name because everybody knows it by that name. Voiceover: Exactly Voiceover: So this is
know as the Peplos Kore because we originally thought
she was simply wearing a peplos which is an
ancient Greek costume, a rectangle of cloth often linen that is pinned at the
shoulders and then falls down. Voiceover: A kore is a type of figure that was found throughout ancient Greece. It's a female figure that's clothed and the counterpart to the
male kouros who was nude. Voiceover: Kore simply
means young woman in Greek. Voiceover: Both korai and kouroi were found in great numbers
during the archaic period which is the period just
before the classical. Voiceover: It's a small sculpture and it was found on the Acropolis. Voiceover: Korai figures
were generally offerings to the goddess Athena
brought interestingly in many cases by men. Voiceover: But recent
research suggests that this may not be a representation
of a young woman at all. This might be a goddess. Voiceover: This figure is
clothed in a very unusual way. Voiceover: Among all of the
sculptures of young women that were found on the Acropolis, this is the only one dressed in this way. Now art historians are actively arguing about what it is that she's wearing. Some still hold to the idea of the peplos. Some suggest that it is a
ketan underneath the peplos. Some say that there's a cape above. So there's any number of possibilities. It has also been researched
into the original coloration of the figure which helps
us understand her costume. Voiceover: Because what she
is wearing is so unusual and is similar to sculptures of goddesses, there is some conjecture recently, very carefully researched conjecture that this may in fact not be an offering which is what's true of
most korai on the Acropolis. But that this is a goddess herself, perhaps Artemis or Athena. Voiceover: Well Artemis
is really important. She was the goddess of the hunt. Voiceover: And she often
carried a bow and arrow. And what's so frustrating
about this sculpture is that we don't have
what she was carrying which would settle once and for all a lot of questions about who she was. Voiceover: Well clearly
she had her left arm straight out, bent at the elbow. Voiceover: Which was
characteristic of most of the representations
of these young women. Voiceover: But in this
case we think she might have been holding a bow with her left hand and we can see in her right hand a fist which is drilled in such a way that it could easily have held an arrow and so she may well be Artemis, the goddess the Romans
would later call Diana. Let's take a close look at the figure. We can see that there are a
lot of holes crowning her head. She probably wore a metal
diadem, a kind of metal crown with rays that would have come up which certainly suggests her divinity. Voiceover: And it wasn't
unusual for these female figures to wear crowns or to wear
other kinds of jewelry that were represented either in paint or as metal that was
applied to the sculpture. Voice over: We can also
see that there's a rod that rises right out of top of her head and some art historians have suggested that there might have been
a crescent above the diadem. And as you said, we can see
holes for bronze earrings which would have been there originally. Her face would have been
more complexly painted. Only the red really survives but we think that there was likely
some black around the eyes and around the eyebrows as well as red and perhaps some more
subtle colors as well. Voiceover: The sculpture has
indicated not only her breasts and her waist but also a subtle sense of her legs underneath
that very heavy drapery. There's a little bit of a sense
of movement in the figure. Voiceover: This is very
much an archaic figure. Voiceover: She does
wear that archaic smile. Voiceover: But we have to remember that that smile was not meant
to be an expression of emotion of happiness but
rather a symbol of well being. Voiceover: And that
smile gives us the figure a sense of being transcendent,
a sense of being ideal, of not engaging in the world
of emotion and difficulty but somehow rising above all
that and so that makes sense for a figure that was a goddess or a figure that represented
ideal femininity. Voiceover: And I think that was probably really beautifully expressed
when this sculpture was new and still brightly painted. We found traces of paint
in the band at the bottom of the cloth that hangs
down over her abdomen. And then in the front of her garment it seems to part just in
the middle of her torso. Voiceover: We see
representation of embroidery of decorative patterns and of animals. Voiceover: Right, we see sphinx. We see horses. There are representations
of perhaps goats. All of which is visible
only under special lighting and is no longer visible to the eye. Voiceover: And perhaps suggests
fecundity or fertility. It's very difficult to know. Voiceover: What we do
know is that she is one of the most exceptional figures
from the archaic period. We're lucky she survived
for all of these years.