DAVID CHRISTIAN:
How diverse is life? How many species are there?
How varied is life? This is a quality that
naturalists refer to as biodiversity. Life exists in a thin sphere
around the surface of the earth. This is called the biosphere. You can think of it as a bit
like the skin on a balloon. It probably goes
up a mile or two where you can find
migrating birds quite high up and you can also
find drifting bacteria. It may go down a
mile or two as well where you find organism
deep in the oceans and even in crevices in rocks. But how many species are there? The truth is we
don't really know but we know there are a lot. The first modern attempt
to count and classify species was that of the Swedish
naturalist Linnaeus, who published a
famous work in 1735 in which he estimated
there might be about 4,000 species, but these were
mostly large species. By the late 19th century,
naturalists estimated that they had to be
at least half a million species. And by 2011,
most biologists would say there were perhaps 9
million different species and some were saying
that there might be up to a hundred million, and
that's not counting bacteria, which change so fast
so we can't really count them. But only about
one million of these have actually been classified
and named and defined. So how would you count them?
There are lots of methods. Some are just very painstaking. You take an area and you go
through it slowly with a magnifying glass
and you count. But one method that ecologists
use is using mist nets. These are nets
with very fine meshes and you throw them over an area
of rainforest or grassland and you spray everything
inside it and you stun them and you go and you just count. And when they do this, almost invariably, they'll find
within just a few square meters, they can count a thousand
or more species and almost invariably too, there'll be a few that
have never been seen before, never named, never classified. So if you were to go out
into your back garden, how many species do you
think you could find? How many species of ferns,
how many flowers, how many birds, how many worms,
how many cockroaches, how many bugs of various kinds? And now imagine seven
billion other humans doing that and now, think
about the possibility that there maybe other
living planets in our galaxy. Some people would say
there could be millions of them, each with its own millions
of diverse species. Life really is staggeringly
creative and diverse.