We all hear the unemployment
rate quoted all the time and it's obviously a very important
economic indicator. But what I want to do in this
video is dig a little bit deeper, and actually figure
out how it's calculated. I'm going to draw a big
diagram right here. Let's say that that big circle
represents the entire U.S. population. I just looked it up on Google. It's 304 million people,
give or take a couple. And then there's going to be a
subset-- that's everybody, that includes my 10
month old son. So obviously, if we're talking
about unemployment, he at least shouldn't be relevant,
not just yet. So there's a subset of people
that the Bureau Of Labor Statistics considers at
least kind of old enough to care about. So this is 16 years and older. And I'd looked that
up as of November. That was about 237 million
people in the U.S. But then there's a subset of
that, because not everyone 16 years and older is necessarily
employable or wants to work. They might be in school,
or in the military, or they might be retired. So they look for a subset of the
people old enough to work, and they call that
the labor force. I'll do the labor
force in pink. I never use that color. I'll do it in green. So that right there in green
is the labor force. And, as of November, if those
numbers I just saw are right, are 154 million people. And then there's some subset
of the labor force that the Bureau Of Labor Statistics
considers unemployed. I'll do it in orange. And the latest numbers
are about 15 million. That's unemployed. So the very simple way that they
actually calculate the number-- but we'll see there's
a little bit more nuance than what the formula might speak
to at first-- is that the unemployment rate, this color,
is equal to the number of unemployed. I'll do it in that same
orange color. So unemployed divided
by the labor force. And the labor force is made up
of the unemployed plus, as you would imagine, the employed. So in this example, to figure
out the unemployment rate, there were 15 million who were
unemployed, so they put 15 million up there in the
numerator, and then the denominator would be this
entire labor force. So it would be the 15 million
who were unemployed and then whatever 154 minus 15 is. What is that? It's 139 million who are
gainfully employed. This number right here is 139. This number right here is 15. You add them together you
get the labor force. That's 154 million people. Now that seems straightforward
enough. I think if you do the math here,
you get something that's close to 10%. But what I want to focus on is
the definitions of unemployed and the labor force, because
they're a little different, at least from my point of view,
than how the term is used. According to the Bureau Of Labor
Statistics, unemployed is someone who essentially
doesn't have a job but wants one. And the way they measure whether
you want to have a job is, you've looked for a job
in the past four weeks. So if I was trying to find a
job, sending my resume around, and then I just got fatigue from
interviewing and I took five weeks off, I would not
be considered unemployed. And that's an important
thing to think about. If the economy were to be so
bad-- Let's say in week one I am part of the unemployed. I don't have a job but I'm
looking for a job. So I'm sitting right there and
I am part of the labor force. I'm not employed but I'm
unemployed looking for a job. But let's say after
several weeks of this, I just get tired. I'm like, you know what, I'm
just going to take a few months off. I'm not even going to look for
a job-- things are so bad-- until things get better. What happens is that I go and
join a pool of people outside of the labor force. So instead of being part of the
labor force, or part of this employed group right here,
if I take more than a four week-- If I take
essentially four and a half weeks where I don't look for a
job, I go into a new bucket called marginally attached
workers. And that's part of the people
who aren't in the labor force. All of a sudden I'm not
in the labor force. So just like that you're taking
me out of the numerator and you're also taking me
out of the denominator. So that actually could improve
the unemployment rate. I want to make this very clear
because this is a non intuitive idea. That the economy could be so
bad, that because I jump out of the labor pool, the
unemployment rate could actually improve. Let me do this with very simple
numbers just to make it a little bit clear. Let's imagine a world where the
entire potential working adult population has
three people in it. So there's three adults. People old enough to work. And let's say the subset of that
adult population, that we right now consider part of the
labor force, let's say there's two people. Obviously these are extreme
numbers, but I think it'll show you how the math
can work out. Now let's say, out of those two
people in the labor force, one of them is unemployed. Obviously if there's two people
in the labor force, one is unemployed, then the other
person is employed. And then there's one more adult
out there who's maybe in school or is a homemaker or
maybe a retiree, but we don't know exactly what they are. And let's say I'm this
unemployed person right here. Let's say I keep looking for a
job but at some point I've gotten rejected so much, and
the news I hear is so dire, that I just decide to take a
break, or take some rest, or I just become depressed about my
lot in life and I just stop looking for a job. I become discouraged. What happens, according to the
Bureau Of Labor Statistics, is I am no longer part--
so this is before. This is while I'm trying. But if I give up. Essentially, if I become so
discouraged that I stop looking for work for more than
four weeks, then the new way that we would have to draw that
diagram out-- our little three person country
is, we would still have the three adults. But now, instead of being
unemployed since I've given up, I'm now not part
of the labor force. Because I'm not looking
for work. So now the entire labor force
is just going to be that one dude with the job. So one person. And there'll be no
unemployment. Because there's no-one in
the labor force who doesn't have a job. I would have jumped into
this bucket right here. I would now be out here. This is me. Well, I meant to draw that as
a set but I turned it into a frowny face. But this is me right here. So what actually happened
over here? I had a 50% unemployment rate. 1 divided by 2. 1 divided by the entire
labor force. That's 50% unemployment,
which is obviously another extreme number. But now, in this situation,
because I've dropped out of the labor force because I was
so discouraged, I now don't get counted. So here you have 0%
unemployment. And if you just superficially
looked at the numbers-- and there are other scenarios you
can think about, where either the numerator or denominator
changes because people get encouraged or discouraged or
decide to be a homemaker or go back to school or come
out of the military, whatever it might be. I just want to show you
that something very non intuitive happened. Because the economy was
so bad, I jumped out of the labor force. And because I jumped out
of the labor force, the unemployment rate looks
superficially positive. It went from 50%, in this
example, to 0%. Obviously in the real world
you're not going to see this type of extreme behavior because
you have more than three people, you have
304 million people. But what I wanted to do is show
you the nuance of how this is calculated. And I don't think anyone is
trying to mislead anyone, but what is happening is that they
have to draw some threshold of what it means to be part
of the labor force. And that's this notion of
looking for a job in the past four weeks. Your brother-in-law who's living
in your basement, you might consider him to be
unemployed, but the Bureau Of Labor Statistics considers him
to be, if he hasn't looked for a job in the last four weeks,
discouraged or perhaps marginally attached.