This is the LEGO Mindstorms
NXT graphical programming environment. To get started, you need
to create a new program by clicking on the
New icon or File, New. And when you create a new
program, it'll show up as a tab here. I have multiple programs open. I was working on these earlier. And that's no problem. The next step is to realize
where all your tools are, which is the
left-hand side here. And this is the Common palette. Think of it as a toolbox. However, you want to switch
to a better toolbox, which is the Complete palette. And this is for advanced users. And that means it just doesn't
hide any detail from you. And don't worry if you don't
understand these blocks. Just be comfortable with
experimenting with each of them and learning them one at a time. Now, this is organized
in an intuitive manner. The green block are all of your
outputs, such as your motors. The yellow block are
all of your inputs, such as your light sensor
or ultrasonic sensor. The orange block are all of
your flow-related blocks, such as looping or waiting. And the data block contains
your math block, your comparison block. Or if you want to
generate a random number or store a variable, that
all lives in this data block. And the final one is
the advanced block, which are lesser used blocks,
such as calibrating your sensor or storing values to files. Now, that is your
complete toolbox. And let's do a
very simple example so we know how to
download and run programs to make sure
everything's working. I'm going to grab my sound
block, which is an output, and drop it onto
my sequence beam. And you should
understand that programs execute from left to right. So right now, all my program
does is hit this sound block and do whatever this sound
block is configured to do. And then my program ends. Let's say I want to drag a
second sound block beside it. And when you click
on a block, you have to pay attention to
the settings down here. So getting to know
your blocks is getting to know your settings. In the case of the
sound block, it allows me to play either a
sound file or generate a tone. I can adjust the
volume of the tone. And there's even a
little keyboard here so I can quickly select what
note I want to generate. So I'm going to
generate a higher C for this sound block
for half a second. And then click on
this sound block. And click on Tone. And I'll generate a lower
tone for half a second. And that's my whole program. So all my program will
do is play two tones. To download a program,
it's very easy as long as your NXT's
plugged in and turned on. You just click this
Play button here, and that will
download and run it. Or you have the option
of just downloading it if you don't want it to run
because it's upside down or something. So I'm going to download
and run this program. And that's all there is to it. So now this program
actually lives on the brick. I can unplug it. And I can just run it by
selecting it on the Brick menu. OK, let's get started.