After coursing throughout the
blood vessels of our bodies, a hormone eventually
meets a receptor that was created specifically
for it by the target cells that it was sent to stimulate. And the way that hormone
interacts with the receptor happens in one of two
very characteristic ways. And I want to show you
today how that happens. And so the first major
mechanism of hormone action at the cell that I'm
going to start with is by secondary messengers. And I'm going to start
with secondary messengers because, historically, they're
a little bit more confusing. But essentially what's
happening is a hormone is binding to a
receptor on a cell. So let me draw a cell
and its receptor. And I'll draw a
hormone binding to it. But the process of that binding,
instead of just stimulating the effect, it really sets
off this chain reaction that leads to
secondary messengers inside the cell being released. So let me draw those. And you've got these secondary
messengers being released, and these are actually
what's stimulating whatever effect is
desired, whether that may be insulin being released
or glucose being taken up inside the cell, or any of
the other countless things taking place in our bodies that
are controlled by hormones. And so in order to give you a
visual for how this might take place in the cell, I've
pre-drawn some pictures in the key. So let me pull those in here. And I want you to be sure
that these drawings are not to scale in any way. But really, this is the
best I can at least do in explaining the process,
because all of this is happening at
the atomic level, and atoms are really tiny. But anyway, what we have in
this picture is a receptor. And I've drawn that
in pink, and it's located inside
the cell membrane. So this is the phospholipid
bilayer of the cell membrane, and we've got the inside of
the cell, and the outside. And then also in
the cell membrane, we've got a G protein, and
I've drawn that in green. It's called a G
protein because it binds to molecules that
include the nucleotide guanine. And that's the same
G from the DNA bases that you might be a little
bit more familiar with. But it's currently
bound to a molecule called guanine diphosphate. And then we'll see
how that changes. But we also have this
adenylate cyclase enzyme that's in the cell membrane. And remember that an
enzyme speeds up reaction. So we're going to see how
adenlyate cyclase speeds up a reaction. But what starts this
process off is the hormone is going to bind
to the receptor. So it's going to look like that. And you're going to have the
hormone bound to the receptor. And once that hormone
binds to the receptor, it's going to change shape. And that's going to allow it
to interact with the G protein here. And so that looks like this. And what you saw happen was
that as the G protein interacts with the receptor in
a hormone complex, it's going to exchange that
GDP that it started with, that guanine
diphosphate for GTP. So essentially, it's
exchanging a guanine bound to two phosphates
for a guanine bound to three phosphates. And what happens is that
enables the G protein to move through
the cell membrane and interact with
adenylate cyclase. And so that activates
the adenylate cyclase. And as an enzyme, that
activated adenylate cyclase facilitates the
conversion of ATP, which is the energy currency
of the cell, into cAMP. And cAMP stands for cyclic
adenosine monophosphate. So we've taken this ATP,
or adenosine triphosphate, and created a cyclic
adenosine monophosphate. And we also have the
additional two phosphates. But it is this
cAMP molecule that activates the protein inside
the cell whose effect is really being targeted by the
hormone in the first place. And so eventually,
this system resets, but not before several
adenlyate cyclase enzymes were activated, resulting in
a lot of cAMP being produced. And so we call this
signal amplification. And what I mean by
signal amplification is that, in theory, one
hormone can bind to a receptor. And that process can
set off a chain reaction that leads to a lot of
cAMP being produced. And so it can mean that
less hormone is required to ultimately activate the
protein or the effect that's being desired. And so secondary
messengers are a means in which hormones
act on the cell. But really, if I'm being
honest, this effect happens differently
for a lot of cells. And all of the mechanisms of
secondary messenger hormone action aren't known right now. And honestly, there are a
lot of secondary messengers other than cAMP. But really, the takeaway
is that for the majority of the hormones in your
body, binding to the cell surface activates a
series of reactions that initiate a response
inside the cell. And so it's very similar to
the use of a phone service provider. And because we as
people-- let me draw us-- because we're unable
to communicate directly with people sometimes, because
of separation or convenience or lack of efficiency,
we use a phone service to project our voice to them
through a phone conversation. So through a phone
conversation, we'll direct our voice to people that
we want to communicate with. Or maybe we use the
delivery of a text message. A text message will transmit
some intended message that we have for people that
we can't communicate directly with, for whatever reason. And so that's very similar to
how secondary messengers assist hormones that can't communicate
with a receptor directly inside of the cell. And so peptide hormones and
catecholamines, both of which can't cross the cell membrane,
use secondary messengers to communicate. And then the other major method
of hormone action on a cell is as a primary messenger. Certain hormones, like
steroids and thyroid hormones, can actually cross
the cell membrane. And it eliminates this
entire middleman system that we set up before. So let me pull in
another cell membrane. And so the hormone
crosses the cell membrane and it binds to
a receptor that's located either in the
cytosol or in the nucleus. And so we could
imagine a nucleus, and there might be DNA inside. But when the hormone binds
to the receptor that's either in the cytoplasm
or inside the nucleus, that binding process is going
to directly affect transcription in the nucleus, or
translation in the cytoplasm, of the protein that's being
activated by the hormone. And this process has quite
a few less moving parts than the secondary
messenger system did. But again, it stems
back to the fact that these are steroid
and thyroid hormones that are typically lipid-based
and are capable of crossing through the cell
membrane on their own. And so they don't need all of
that extra machinery set up for them. But anyway, these are
both primary messengers and secondary messengers. And those are the
two main processes by which hormones
act on the cell that they're created to target.