Let's look at the
hydration of alkynes. So we're going to start with
a terminal alkyne over here. You can see there's a hydrogen
on one side of our alkyne. And on the other
side of our alkyne, let's say it's an
alkyl group, bonded to this carbon on the right. So we're going to add
water, sulfuric acid, and mercury(II)
sulfate to our alkyne. We're going to hydrate it. Now we've seen the
hydration reaction before. We did a hydration
reaction with an alkene, and we added an H plus and an
OH minus across our double bond. And we're going to do
the same thing here. We're going to add an
H plus and an OH minus, this time across
our triple bond. And the OH minus always adds
to the most-substituted carbon. So we saw that in
our earlier video. So the regiochemistry
shows Markovnikov's Rule. I'll just write
Mark's rule here. We've spent a lot
of time talking about Markovnikov's
Rule in earlier videos. Which means that this OH
over here, on the right, is going to add to the
most-substituted carbon, which happens to be the
carbon on the right, since that's going to be
bonded to an aklyl group, over here on the right. The H plus, add it over here
to this carbon on the left. So now there are two
hydrogens on the left. So we added H plus and OH minus. We added water, essentially,
across our triple bond. And we get this molecule
as our intermediate. This molecule has
a specific name. It is called an enol. The E comes from the fact
that there's a double bond present in this molecule, and
the ol comes from the fact that there's an alcohol. This OH here. So this enol is the
intermediate of this reaction. However, the enol is
not the most stable form of this molecule. So it's actually
going to rearrange. And we're going to get a
ketone for our product. And I'll show you the
mechanism for this arrangement in a few minutes here. So we get a methylketone
from a terminal alkyne. So this reaction
is best used when you're looking to
make a methylketone and you're starting with
the triple bond here. So let's look at a reaction. Let's start with
a terminal alkyne. I'm going to put a methyl group
on this side of the carbon, like that. And I'm going to react
this terminal alkyne with water and sulfuric acid
and with mercury(II) sulfate, like that. If we think about
what's going to happen, we're adding H plus and OH
minus across our triple bond. We're going to add the OH minus
to the most-substituted carbon. So that would be the
carbon on the right. So we have carbon double-bonded
to another carbon. We're going to add the OH
to the carbon on the right. We're going to add the H plus
to the carbon on the left, so there's water added
across your triple bond. And then we have
still another hydrogen on this carbon on the left
here, and then the methyl group is still over here on the right. So that's our enol intermediate. Let me just draw
this molecule again. So this molecule is equivalent
to this molecule right here. So I'm going to draw it
in this form, from now on. So this is my enol form. And my enol's
going to rearrange. This is not the most stable
form of this molecule. So let's see the mechanism
of how our enol rearranges. Let's go ahead and redraw
our enol down here. Let's get a little
room, like that. So here's my enol. Put in my double bond, put in
my lone pairs of electrons, like that. So. This enol is present
in an acidic mixture. H2O and H2SO4 are
going to give me hydronium ions in
solution, H3O plus. So there's going to be H3O
plus floating around here in solution, so we have our
hydronium looking like that. This, of course, is capable
of donating a proton. And the pi electrons are going
to actually move out here and pick up a proton, like that. And then these
electrons are going to kick off onto your oxygen. So this is an acid-base
reaction as the first step. So therefore, we go draw
our equilibrium arrows here, like that. And let's see what happens. Well, we're going to have--
this is our skeleton. The OH didn't really
do anything yet. And we're going to add
a proton onto the carbon on the left side of your
double bond, like that. So let's go ahead and show
what electrons did the moving. The electrons in your pi bond,
whichever one of these bonds here is your pi bond. Those electrons are
going to move and form a bond with this
proton, like this. So we ended up taking away
a bond from this carbon, right here. So we had a double bond
that took a bond away from that carbon. That's going to make that
carbon positively charged. So there's a plus one formal
charge on that carbon. And we can draw a
resonanced structure for this intermediate. So let's go ahead and
draw our resonance bracket and our resonance arrows here. And what can we do with our
lone pairs of electrons, to share that positive charge? We can take one of these
lone pairs of electrons, and we can move
them in here to form a double bond between our
carbon and our oxygen. So let's go ahead and do that. A double bond forms between
our carbon and our oxygen, like that. Now there's only one
lone pair of electrons on this top oxygen. And if we think about what
happened to our formal charge, it actually moves out
here to this oxygen. So this oxygen now is a
plus one formal charge. This is a resonance structure. Let me go ahead and keep
this hydrogen in here. Like that. So that's our
resonance structure for this molecule on the left. Now, oxygen does not like
having a plus one formal charge either. So is there any
way for this oxygen to get rid of its plus
one formal charge? And of course there is. There's water floating around. So water is going
to act as a base. So a lone pair of
electrons on water is going to take this
proton, just that proton, leaving these two electrons
behind on my oxygen, like that. So we have another
acid-base reaction. Let's go ahead and show this
reaction being at equilibrium. So I draw my equilibrium
arrows like that. And so now I have my oxygen. It had one lone pair
of electrons around it. Now it has two lone pairs
of electrons around it. So now we're done. We formed our ketone version. So this is acetone,
our simplest ketone. So we have the keto
form of the product. This is the keto
form of the product in the form of a ketone. And then we have
our enol over here. So the ketone and
the enol form are said to be tautomers
of each other. And they're in equilibrium
with each other, and they can go back and forth. And in this case,
we're using acid to catalyze this transition. So this is called
acid-catalyzed tautomerization. Like that. And we're going back and
forth between the keto and the enol form. So you'll also hear this called
keto-enol tautomerization a lot, like that. So the keto and
the enol form are in equilibrium with each other. Now the equilibrium is actually
going to favor the keto form. So this is actually
the more stable form. This is more stable,
so that carbon double-bonded to an
oxygen, for the keto form, is more stable than the
carbon double-bonded to another carbon,
in the enol form. And essentially you're
changing one proton and one pi bond in
this equilibrium. And this is the acid-catalyzed
form of this mechanism. So in the next video, we'll
see a very similar reaction where we do a base-catalyzed
tautomerization.