- [Kim] Long before Rosa
Parks refused to move to the back of the bus, Homer
Plessy boarded a train car in New Orleans to protest
Jim Crow segregation laws. Plessy was arrested and
convicted in Louisiana, but his test case for
segregated public transportation reached the Supreme Court in 1896. This is Kim from Khan Academy. And today, we're learning
more about the landmark case, Plessy versus Ferguson, which asks whether separate but equal accommodations for Black and White Americans violated the 14th Amendment
of the Constitution. To learn more about this case,
I spoke with two experts. Jamal Greene is the
Dwight Professor of Law at Columbia Law School. Earl Maltz is a Distinguished
Professor of Law at Rutgers Law School. So Professor Greene, could
you kind of set the stage for us in this time period? After the Civil War, what was the legal and social status of former slaves? - [Jamal] Well, of course,
the Civil War ended in 1865. And it was fought in large
part over the institution of chattel slavery, so slavery
of, generally speaking, Black or African American slaves. And right at the end of the Civil War, the 13th Amendment was passed. And the 13th Amendment basically said that there shouldn't be any slavery
or involuntary servitude in the United States. So the institution of
slavery itself had ended, but the passage of the
13th Amendment did not mean that former slaves had equal rights. A number of the former
states of the Confederacy, the, generally speaking, Southern states, passed a number of racially
discriminatory laws immediately after the end of slavery that prevented Black
Americans from participating in civil society on
equal terms with Whites. For example, laws restricting
the ability of Blacks to enter into and enforce contracts, restricting the ability
of Blacks to own property, to sit on juries, to
vote, to testify in court, and so forth. So there were a number of
openly discriminatory laws. There were also laws that
required Blacks to be employed on pain of having their labor forced, so ways of essentially re-instituting the institution of slavery. - [Kim] And these were
known as the Black Codes. - [Jamal] Those were known
as the Black Codes, exactly. - [Earl] In the Reconstruction period between say the late
1860s and the mid 1870s, there was a concerted effort
by the federal government to improve the social status and political rights of African Americans. In 1876, there was part of the settlement of the presidential election of 1876, the federal government drew back some. But most of the so-called
Redeemer movement really took off in the 1890s. I think 1891 is when the
last real effort is made by the federal government to have a serious Voting Rights Act. After that, the South is
pretty much under control of the people who sympathized
with ex-Confederates. - [Jamal] In both Northern
and Southern states, there was widespread racial segregation. So there were laws that
were basically codifying long-existing social practices
of segregated housing, segregated schools, and
segregated public conveyances like steamships and rail cars. But much of that changed in the years immediately following the Civil War. Congress passed a number of federal laws that banned racial discrimination, particularly in
contracting and in housing. Quite significantly, in addition
to the actual federal laws that Congress passed, the country passed and ratified the 14th Amendment. - [Kim] So I think one
thing that is very hard for me to understand and
that I've seen students struggle with is you have the
passage of the 14th Amendment and the 15th Amendment in 1868, 1870. And these are supposed to
guarantee equal protection and citizenship and voting
rights for African Americans, specifically men in the 15th Amendment. And then, you have Jim Crow. So how did we get from this
moment after the Civil War where things really seem
like they're looking up in terms of African American citizenship to the system of Jim Crow
that's going to persist into the 1960s and 70s. - [Jamal] The Civil
War did not end racism. It simply ended slavery. And so, we're still
living in a racist society in which residential and
school segregation remained both in Southern states
and in Northern states notwithstanding the
Civil Rights Amendments. And in Southern states, Reconstruction, the process of trying
to bring former slaves fully into civil society,
was enforced by the presence of federal troops in Southern states on the theory, the very
well-founded theory, that states that had
just gone to war in order to perpetuate the institution
of slavery were not going to willingly adopt equal
rights for the former slaves that they had just been
holding in bondage. And so, there was a
federal military occupation of a number of former Confederate states for a good decade plus after the Civil War really ending in 1877. - [Earl] And at that point, again through the Redeemer movement, people who were the White power structure, most of which had sympathized with the Secessionist Movement, the White power structure
and its successors took power back in the
beginning and mid 1870s in the Southern states. And as part of their campaign, they imposed the Jim Crow system. - [Jamal] Slavery was
not just about labor. It was really a system
of racial hierarchy. And many in the United
States remained committed to that system even after
bondage itself ended. And if you don't have the political will within the Northern states to enforce the Reconstruction
Amendments, you had really a retrenchment of deep racial inequality within the Southern states, but not just within the Southern states, but also within a number
of Northern states as well. - [Kim] So let's kind
of dial into the case Plessy versus Ferguson. Who was Homer Plessy? And why did he take
issue with segregation? - [Earl] Well the law that was at issue required what was in
theory separate but equal accommodation of African
Americans and Whites on public transportation. Homer Plessy objected to it because A, the facilities weren't really equal. And he objected to it in part because he was classified as
Black, but also in general because he thought that
that was demeaning. Obviously, a majority of
members of the Supreme Court believed that the Southern
states should have at least some leeway
and to establish their the system of racial segregation. - [Jamal] And so, Plessy was
in league with the railroad and with the civil rights organization that recruited him to set up a case. So he agreed with the railroad to board the White area of the railway car on a car going from New Orleans
to a town called Covington. And it was agreed that the
railway would ask him to leave. He would refuse. And then, he would be arrested. And once he was arrested,
that would enable him to challenge the law under
which he was arrested under the Constitution. The railroads didn't like this law. They didn't like this law
because they didn't want to be subject to fines or liability for not properly
maintaining separate cars. It was really up to the
conductors to make sure that separate cars were maintained. And the conductors
themselves could be fined by the state for not doing so. And they could also be fined by passengers for mistakenly putting
someone in the wrong car. So the railroads didn't
really wanna be bothered with this kind of law. And so, this particular
railroad, Eastern Railway, was willing to agree to set up a situation to challenge the law. - [Kim] So Homer Plessy,
he gets on this train and he challenges the statute. I believe he sat in a Whites-only car and announced that he
was African American. And then, he was arrested. So what happened next? - [Jamal] He's arrested. And then, he is eventually
charged with a crime, with a violation of the statute. And there's a fine associated
with violating the state law. And his lawyers bring a claim that the law violates
the Federal Constitution. So initially, it goes through
the state courts of Louisiana. And then eventually, they
rule against Homer Plessy in favor of the law. And then, his lawyers appealed the case to the U.S. Supreme Court. - [Kim] So how did the court rule? - [Jamal] In the years
leading up to the case, the lawyers for Homer
Plessy were quite concerned about the composition of the court because they weren't
sure if they could count five votes in favor of Black civil rights. Because none of the justices on the court were considered to be particularly friends of Black Americans. - [Earl] In the civil
rights cases in 1883, the court had already held
that Congress lacked authority to prohibit segregation
in public accommodations, which meant they viewed public
accommodations as something fairly private rather than a civil right, a quasi-governmental right
or a quasi-public right. And that's one of the big distinctions between the majority
and the dissent in both the civil rights cases and
in Plessy versus Ferguson. The court ruled that in fact
that so long as the state of Louisiana maintained
separate but equal facilities, they could do that, that
that was not prohibited by the 14th Amendment. - [Jamal] The Supreme Court
in 1896 rules seven to one that the Separate Car
Act is constitutional. So a state is allowed to
segregate its public conveyances, including rail cars, by race. The court denies that the
Separate Car Act violates the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. What the court basically says is: look, the law says the
railway cars have to be equal, even if they're separate. And all the 14th Amendment requires is that basic equality in civil rights. - [Earl] John Marshall Harlan, of course, dissented from that. I think that it's important to understand what was the actual
nature of Harlan's dissent rather than the way that
it is actually portrayed. Harlan is famous talking about
the colorblind Constitution, but in fact, what he says is: "With respect to civil rights
common to all citizens," I don't have the exact language before me, "that the Constitution which
required to be colorblind." So one of the big distinctions
between the majority and the dissent is that
Harlan does in fact believe that the right to
use public transportation counted as a civil right, and therefore, was protected against
segregation by Section 1 of the 14th Amendment. I wanna make that point
because it's pretty clear that Harlan believed, for
example, that maintenance of segregated schools
would be constitutional. And it's also true that Harlan voted for to say that miscegenation
laws were constitutional. - [Jamal] The dissenting judge, Justice Harlan himself a
former supporter of slavery, who changed his views and
eventually became known as a champion of Black civil rights. So Justice Harlan, the lone dissenter, one of the only Southern
judges on the court. But the others were basically Northern, both Republican and Democrat. They didn't have strong views about race. They didn't have unusually
strong views about race for their time. And they maintained this distinction between social and civil rights. It's important to understand
in trying to understand the context of Plessy versus Ferguson that the Supreme Court used to distinguish between what it called civil rights and what it called social rights. Civil rights were basically
rights to participate in civil society, and
included rights like the right to enter into contracts,
the right to buy property, the right to testify in court. The court understood
social rights as something very different from that,
which is really the right to do all of those things in the company of people of a different race. - [Kim] That's fascinating. So what was the effect of this ruling in Plessy versus Ferguson? - [Earl] There are two ways
that you could look at it. That until 1954, the effect of the ruling was to say that the state
governments were allowed to segregate their citizenry
on the basis of race. That's one way you could look at it. Now one of the interesting questions is how much difference it would have made given the sort of culture
of the Southern states even if the court had held
that it was unconstitutional for the state to formally
require segregation among the races. That is, that there were a
lot of informal pressures which would have pushed toward segregation even if the court had said that the statute was unconstitutional. But we'll never know that. So in other words, the question in Plessy is not whether the federal government was going to mandate segregation, but rather whether the federal government was simply going to leave the
states and their citizenry to their own devices in
determining whether to segregate their public transportation
and some other thing. - [Kim] So this concept
of separate but equal is I think the most important
thing that comes out of Plessy versus Ferguson,
and then later will be at issue in the 20th century. So was separate ever equal
in theory or in practice? - [Jamal] It was very clear at the time. And Justice Harlan says so
in his dissenting opinion in Plessy that the practice
of separating railway cars or any number of other
public accommodations by race was not designed for the
comfort of Black Americans. It was designed in order to maintain their social inferiority
through legal institutions. So once you no longer have
the institution of slavery, there was a felt need
among many in the South to maintain the system of social relations that slavery represented. And that's what Jim Crow was all about. And everyone knew that's
what Jim Crow was all about. So Jim Crow was really
kind of in its infancy when Plessy versus Ferguson was decided. Laws that prevented Blacks from voting through a number of literacy requirements and property requirements and good character
requirements and so forth, those kinds of laws were
very much in their infancy at the time Plessy versus
Ferguson was decided. And so, the whole system of segregation is really revving up in the 1890s. And the court just gives it carte blanche to continue after that. And it's important to
remember that as of the 1890s, the Supreme Court had not
admitted to ever having reversed one of its own decisions. Whereas your Plessy case
was quite clear about this. The assumption was that
once the court ruled, it was going to be an awfully long time before you could get the
court to reverse itself. And that's in fact what happened. So the court does not reverse
Plessy versus Ferguson until Brown versus Board
of Education in 1954. And so, you had an almost 60-year period in which practices of
institutionalized segregation had the blessing of the Supreme Court. - [Kim] So we've learned that
in Plessy versus Ferguson, the Supreme Court took a narrow view of the Equal Protection Clause, ruling that separate
but equal accommodations for White and Black
Americans did not violate the 14th Amendment. Earl Maltz suggests that it's difficult to tell if a different outcome
in Plessy versus Ferguson would have made much
difference in the actions of Southern states if
there was no political will to enforce integration anyway. Jamal Greene, by contrast,
reminds us that segregation was just getting started at
the time of the Plessy case. And this ruling by the court
legitimized Jim Crow laws that would continue to
spread for nearly 60 years. To learn more about
Plessy versus Ferguson, check out the National
Constitution Center's Interactive Constitution
in Khan Academy's resources on U.S. government and history.