Now we're going to install our
on-off switch and the switch that will control our LEDs. So we're going to put two
about half dime sized blobs of hot glue down on
the back of the bot. And remember, you want to make
sure that the hot glue does not interfere with the
sliding of the switch or with the contacts
on the back. So when you push the
switch down, just make sure you don't get
hot glue in the switch, otherwise it won't work. So once those are in place,
the hot glue actually dries fairly quickly
on the metal surface, because it helps to conduct
heat away from the glue. So once those are
in place, we can begin to connect
our motors, which we'll turn on and
off with the switch. So the first wire that
we're going to connect will be to connect the
two motors together. This will help to
complete the circuit. And so what we're
going to do is we have a wire that's
about the right length. It's about two and a
half, three inches long, and we're stripping
off a good 3/4 of an inch of one
side of that wire. And the reason why
we're stripping off so much insulation
is that we're going to need to connect another
wire to that wire later. So then on the other
side we'll only take off about a
quarter of an inch. So this is the side that has a
little bit more than a quarter, maybe 3/8 of an inch there. And so again, we're
going to loop that through the brass contact. And we want to make sure
that it touches the brass and connects with it and
it as broadly as possible so that it is very firmly
conducting the electricity. And so it's tricky. You got to spend a little bit of
time with it, but it will work. So what I usually do is I'll run
the wire through it in a loop and then I'll run the wire to
the other side and connect, again, thread the longer side
of the wire through the motor. And that extra wire
we're going to need to make another connection. So again, I'm looking the
wire around the brass contact there so we can get as
much of the wire in contact with the brass as possible. And it helps to take
that needle nose pliers and squeeze it against
the wire on the motors. And one thing I will
say is those brass contacts are very
small and thin, and they can break easily. So you have to be
careful with how you crimp the wire onto
the brass contact there. OK, so now we've taken
a piece of yellow wire and it's about two inches long,
and we've stripped the ends and put a loop in the end. And we're going to crimp
that end onto our switch. So it's not as easy to build
the bought this way as it would be if we were using solder,
because clearly solder's conductive and it
basically acts as a glue and also conducts electricity. But the glue we're
using, the hot glue doesn't conduct electricity,
so it's really important that our wire
connections are sound. And so you may need to
adjust several times to get the wire
crimped in such a way that it's going to hold
tightly to the connection on the switch. And so mine's
coming loose, so I'm going to go ahead
and put it back again and see if I can't get
it held tightly in place with the needle nose pliers. And you can bend
the connections up to give you a little bit
more of something to grip onto there, bend the
terminals, I should say. OK, so now I'm going to run the
other side of the yellow wire to the exposed portion
of the green wire that we just connected
to the motors. So I'm going to put it in there
I'm going to twist it around just like we did when
we connected the LEDs or we joined the negative
wire on our switches. So we're going to just
twist this around. Again, we want to make sure
that that twisting happens multiple times so we have
a good, solid connection. And there we go. One other note is that
we want to make sure that the yellow wire doesn't
touch the other terminal on the switch, otherwise
it will always be on and we won't be able to
turn the bot on and off. So now that we've
tested our motors, we can go ahead and
hot glue over the wire connections to make sure
they're all connected there. And we've tested our
blue wires and so we're going to go ahead and hot
glue over those connections. And that will help to
hold the wire in place and it will help to
insulate it as well. OK, so now what we
need to do is we need to connect the
other wire to our switch that we just wired to
the other yellow wire. So the way the
switch works is this is actually a three
connection switch. So it's a single pole
double throw switch. And it's a single pull
double throw sliding switch as opposed to a
single pole level throw lever switch, which we
have at the front of the bot. So we only need two
of these connections. We don't need three of them. And it doesn't matter. You can choose two on one
side or two on the other, but you have to choose two that
are next to each other in order for the switch to work. So since we don't need
this connection here, this pin here, we're just
bending it out of the way. This pin won't be useful because
all we want to do is open and close the circuit. We don't want to switch between
it two different circuits. So the next thing
we're going to do is we're going to take about
the rest of our yellow wire. We're going to strip
off, again, about 3/8 of an inch, 3/8 to 1/4
of an inch of insulation. And once we've got
that pulled off-- there we go-- we'll
create a loop in it. And we'll link that loop to
the exposed terminal that is on our switch,
which is the terminal in the middle of the switch. So from looking at the top,
we have one on the left side and then we're going
to connect one wire to the middle of the switch. So we've got our wire already
cut and stripped and our loop put into it. We're just crimping it onto
that center terminal there. And we're going to squeeze
that tightly against the center terminal with our
needle nose pliers. So to test that
connection, we're running that wire
back to the batteries. And you can hear them running. So now we're going to
go ahead and hot glue that connection in place now
that we know that it works. Again basically, what
this switch is doing is it's allowing us to convert
our batteries, which are wired in series, which
double the voltage to parallel. And that allows us to
double the capacity and run the motors at a
little bit of a slower speed. So once that hot glue has
turned that milky color and has cooled down, we
will connect the wire to the battery in the back. So the hot glue's cool. We're going to go and pop our
battery out of the holder. There's a little hole there that
we can stick the wire through. And so the first
thing we need to do is just kind of
remove the battery. So we can push the wire through
and then just loop the wire up. And as long as the
wire's connecting against the side of the holder
and the little rivet there, we'll have a good
electrical connection. Because that spring that's
inside of the battery holder will push the
battery against that. And so we'll be
able to make sure that we have good
solid connection. And once we put our
battery back in, we'll test it to make
sure everything's working. So I've put just a little
bit of tape around the motors to make sure we
could see them spin. So you can trigger the
motors with a single pull double throw switches
or the lever switches, or you can turn
them on permanently with a sliding switch. So when you push the
single pull lever switches causes the motors to
back up and that's going to mean that our spout
bot will be able to reverse.