- [Instructor] In this
video, we're going to dig a little bit deeper into the notion of perfectly competitive markets, or we're gonna think
about under what scenarios a firm would make an economic profit or an economic loss in them. Now as a reminder, these
perfectly competitive markets are something of a theoretical ideal. There's few markets in the real world that are truly perfectly competitive. Some might get close, but
most markets are someplace in a spectrum between
perfectly competitive and at the other extreme, say
something like a monopoly. But here we're talking
about perfect competition, and in perfect competition, the firm's products aren't differentiated. There's no barriers to entry or exit. And so in that situation,
the market supply and demand curves are gonna
define the price in the market, which are also gonna
define the marginal revenue for these firms. They're all going to be price takers. They're gonna be passive
in terms of price. Whatever the market price
is, that's the price that they are going to
sell their products for. And their decision is really
what quantity to produce and sell and whether to
enter or exit the market. So let's look at that a little bit. So these are just your classic
and supply demand curves, supply and demand curves,
you might see for a market. The first few units in the market, there's a huge marginal benefit. So people are willing to
pay a lot, but then each incremental unit, the marginal benefits a little bit lower and
lower and lower and lower, and that's why we have that
downward-sloping demand curve. And then on the supply curve,
the first unit in the market might be fairly inexpensive to produce, but then the marginal cost gets higher and higher and higher. And where they meet, where
the supply and demand meet, that tells us the equilibrium price and equilibrium quantity in the market. And we can show that with that line, and let's just say that
equilibrium price is $10. And as I just mentioned,
that's going to have to be the price that all of the firms, and these might not be all
of the firms in the market, but all of the firms in the market, if we're talking about a
perfectly competitive market, would just have to take that price. So given that, what
quantity would firms A, B, and C produce, and which of these firms would be profitable or not? I encourage you to pause
the video and think about those two questions. If you could just answer,
which of these firms would be profitable or not, and we're talking about
economic profit in this context. All right, well let's
look at Firm A first. Well Firm A, for any of
them, it is not rational to produce a quantity
where the marginal cost is higher than the marginal revenue that the firm's getting. And remember, this line right over here, this line right here,
which is the price line, that's also, that is price, which is equal to marginal revenue. And so, for that extra
unit, if you can't sell it for more than you're producing,
then you wouldn't produce that extra unit. So it's rational for them to
produce more and more and more, the marginal cost goes higher and higher, until right at the
point that marginal cost is equal to marginal revenue,
which is equal to price, the market price, which
they're just going to take. So it's rational for this
firm to produce this quantity right over here. So I'll just go quantity, I'll
say quantity for that firm. Now is this firm going
to be profitable or not? Well at this quantity, what's
its average total cost? Well its average total
cost is right over there, and so, for every unit, it's going to make this difference between the
price or the marginal revenue it's getting and its average total cost. And so one way to thing
about the profit of this firm is, and we're talking
about economic profit, it's going to be the
area of this rectangle right over here. So let's say if the average total cost at that quantity is,
let's say that this is $8, then this height of the
rectangle is 10 minus eight. The height right over here, let me do this in a different color, this
height right over here is $2. And then the width is
going to be the quantity of that firm. And so let's say the
quantity of that firm, let's say it's 10,000
units a year, 10,000, 10,000 units per year. And so the area right over
here would be $2 times 10,000. It would be $20,000. $20,000 per time unit if
we're talking all of this is say per year. Now let's go to Firm B. Using that same analysis, is Firm B making an economic profit, or is it
not making an economic profit? Well, Firm B is once again
going to be a price taker, and so the price right over
here, the equilibrium price in the market, is going
to be equal to the price that that firm has to
take, which is going to be its marginal revenue curve. And that's why it's a flat
marginal revenue curve because no matter what
quantity they produce, they're gonna get that same price. And it wouldn't be rational
for them to produce a quantity where marginal cost is higher than marginal revenue. And so they would
produce right over there. Now what is their economic
profit at this quantity? So this is quantity of
the second firm, Firm B, I'll write it like that,
maybe that is Firm A. And maybe this is also,
it looks about the same. I'll make 'em a little bit different. Let's say that's 9,500
units per time period. Well here the average
total cost at that quantity is equal to the marginal cost. So, which is equal to
the marginal revenue. So, at that quantity, whatever
that $10 they're getting per unit, they're also spending
on average $10 per unit. Another way to think about
it, the area of that rectangle is going to be zero
because it has no height. So this situation right over here, the firm has zero, zero economic, I'll write $0 of economic profit. And then last but not least,
let's think about Firm C. Pause this video and think about what its
economic profit would be. Well, like we've seen,
it would be rational for it to produce the
quantity where marginal cost is equal to marginal
revenue, which is equal to the market price. So it would produce this
quantity right over here. And let's say that that
quantity is 9,000 units. And what's its average total cost then? So at 9,000 units, its average total cost, let's say that that is
$12 right over there. So what's its economic profit? So for every unit it's
selling, it's getting $10, and it's costing $12 on
average to produce it. So it's taking an economic
loss of $2 per unit. So $2 per unit, so this
height right over here is $2, times the units, times 9,000, you're going to have two times 9,000, you're going to have an
$18,000 not economic profit, but economic, economic loss. Now one thing to think about is, why would any firm be in this situation? Well it's important to think
about things in the short run versus the long run. In the short run, we've
talked about this analysis right over here where a firm can decide what quantity it would
produce that is rational. Its fixed costs are
fixed in the short run. We've studied that in multiple videos. But in the long run, its
fixed costs aren't fixed, and so the firm could decide
to enter or exit the market. And so for Firm C, while
they've already put in those fixed costs, it is actually rational for them to do it because
they're actually able to make the marginal revenue they get up to that quantity. It's at least they're
able to more than cover their marginal costs,
and then they're able to eat up or I guess you could say take care of some of their fixed costs. But they're still not able
to run an economic profit. So in the long run, it
wouldn't be rational for this firm to stay in the market. They would likely exit the market.