- [Instructor] We've already
seen how to name alkanes. For example, this alkane is five carbons. One, two, three, four, five. And we know it's called pentane. So, what do we do if we're
trying to name alkenes? So this compound has a double bond present but there's also five carbons. One, two, three, four and five. So, we start with pent indicating five carbons present but since there's a double bond we need to change our ending from ane to ene, so let
me write in here ene and we'd call this molecule pentene. We want to number it to give the lowest number possible
to our double bond. So, we start from the left. This'd be carbon one,
this'd be carbon two, three, four and five. So, our double bond starts at carbon one. And we could write one pentene. If you leave the one off, it's implied that the double
bond starts at carbon one. What if we tried to number
this starting from the right? So, if we said that this was carbon one, that would make this
carbon two, carbon three, carbon four and carbon five. So, you're saying the double bond would start at carbon four and this would be four pentene. That's incorrect because our goal is to give the double bond
the lowest number possible, so we'd call it one
pentene or just pentene. Let's look at this next example here. So, our goal is to find
the longest carbon chain that includes the double bond and we want to give the double bond the lowest number possible. So, the longest carbon chain
that includes the double bond, we would have to make this carbon one and this would be carbon two, this'd be carbon three, this
is four and this is five. So, a five carbon alkene would be pentene. You could put the one in there
or you could leave it off. Next, you think about the substituents, in this case we have only one group coming off our carbon chain, it's a two carbon alkyle group and we call that ethyl. So, with an ethyl group
coming off carbon two, we would call this two
ethyl pentene for the name. But that's not the longest carbon chain. So, someone might look at this molecule and say, wait a second,
shouldn't this be carbon one and then this two,
three, four, five and six because that's six carbons and six carbons is, of
course, more than five? The problem with this is the double bond, the alkene is not a part
of our longest carbon chain and that's one of our rules. We need to make the longest carbon chain that includes the double bond and that's why we name this
as a pentene derivative and not numbering it according to the way I
did it in the right here. So, this is incorrect. So, we find the longest carbon chain that includes our double bond and give the lowest number
possible to your double bond. That's true even if you have
some alkyl substituents. So, let's look at this next example and let's name this compound. So, first let's try numbering
from the left to the right. This'd be carbon one,
this'd be carbon two, this is carbon three, carbon four, carbon five and carbon six. A six carbon alkene
would be called hexene, so let me write that in here. So, hexene and our double
bond starts at carbon two. So, here we can see our double
bond starting at carbon two. So, I'm gonna put a two in
front of this, so two hexene. Next, let's think about the substituents coming off of that longest carbon chain including the double bond. We have a methyl group
coming off carbon two, another methyl group on carbon four and another methyl group on carbon five. So, three methyl groups
would be called trimethyl, so let me write that in here. So we have trimethyl
and those methyl groups are on two, four and five. So, two, four, five trimethyl two hexene would be the name for this compound. There's another way to name this molecule. Instead of putting this
two in front of the hexene, you can put the two between
the hex and the ene. So, let me write out that way. So, we'd still have methyl
groups at two, four, five. So, two, four, five trimethyl, trimethyl, let's write hex, and then we'll put the
two in here, hex two ene. So again, the two right here indicates the double bond
starts at carbon two. This first way of naming it, two, four, five trimethyl two hexene is more of the old school
way of naming this alkene. Two, four, five trimethyl hex two ene is more of the newer way, but currently most people
would accept both ways to name this alkene. What if you tried to number
this from the right to the left? If you said this was carbon one and this was carbon two
and this was carbon three, carbon four, carbon five and carbon six. You might think this would be correct because this would give you methyl groups at two, three and five and thinking about the first
point of difference rule, right, we have two here and a two here but we have a three here versus a four, and we know that three is of course, a lower number. So, you might think that the alkyl groups would lead you to number
it starting from the right. The problem with this way is this would give you an alkene that starts at carbon four, a double bond that starts at carbon four and our goal is to give the lowest number possible
to the double bonds. And we want to give the double bond the lowest number possible and that's all for any alkyl group which is why we number it the way we did and two, four, five trimethyl two hexene is the correct IUPAC
name for this compound. Next, let's look at cyclic examples. So, down here on the left we already know this is
cyclohexane with an ane ending. If we put a double bond
in, we have cyclohexene. So, let me write that in here, this is called cyclohexene, so ene. So, either one of these
carbons could be carbon one. So, this carbon or this carbon, either one of them could be. Let's just say this one is. If that's carbon one, then
this must be carbon two and so on around the ring, three, four, five and six. What if you have substituents? Let's look at this example
down here on the left first. So, we wanna give our substituent
the lowest number possible so here's our double bond, so we can make this carbon one or the one below it carbon one to give this methyl group
the lowest number possible, we make this top carbon here carbon one. So, that's carbon one
and this is carbon two and so on around the ring. So, this is a cyclohexene ring, so let me write this
down here, so cyclohexene and we have this methyl
group coming off carbon one, so we would write one methyl cyclohexene. What about this one right here? So again, we have a cyclohexene ring, so let me start by writing that in, so cyclohexene as our parent name here and we have a choice. Here's our double bond. We could make this one carbon one or we could make this one carbon one. Well, if we make the
bottom one carbon one, that gives this substituent
a lower number, alright. So, this would be carbon one and we have to follow the
double bond around the ring. So, if that's carbon one, this is carbon two and that
makes this carbon three. So, let's think about those substituents. At carbon three we have two methyl groups, so that's dimethyl, so
let's write that in here, so dimethyl cyclohexene and those two methyl groups
are both on carbon three, so three, three dimethyl and then we have this ethyl group here coming off of carbon one. So, this is an ethyl group,
so let's write that in. So, we have one ethyl, so one ethyl three, three
dimethyl cyclohexene and don't forget about the alphabet rule. So ethyl comes before methyl, right, E comes before M which is why we put the
ethyl first in the name. So one ethyl three, three
dimethyl cyclohexene.