DAVID CHRISTIAN: We humans
are creatures of the surface. We drown if you leave us
in water too long. We freeze or asphyxiate
if you shoot us ten kilometers up into the atmosphere. To survive
in those environments, we need specially constructed
containers, a bit like this cable car that
I'm riding up to Seoul Tower, but much fancier. More like submarines or planes
or even space suits. Many organisms
are much hardier than us. Some microorganisms
and migratory birds can live, at least temporarily,
in the thin and icy air in which
international jets cruise. The oceans have been
home to life since life first appeared. Today, sperm whales
can dive up to two kilometers below the surface. But ten kilometers
below the surface, you can find
much stranger organisms, some of them feasting off
the carcasses of dead whales, some of them using the chemicals
and the boiling water that comes out
of deep-sea oceanic vents. The soil beneath our feet
is full of organisms. And we now know
that some of them may live up to six or seven
kilometers below the surface. Still, most of life
can be found in a thin envelope near the surface
that we call the biosphere. This is life's comfort zone. It's a very thin
and fragile layer and it's had an exciting and sometimes dangerous history. Life, it turns out,
has been very vulnerable, in fact, the entire biosphere,
to sudden changes. And sometimes
these have generated mass extinction events
when up to 50 percent of all species have died. Between two
and three billion years ago, photosynthesizers began
to raise the amount of oxygen in the oceans
and the atmosphere. And for most organisms
at the time, oxygen was poisonous. So they perished
in huge numbers in what, today, we call the Oxygen Holocaust. But the fossil record shows that in just the last
600 million years, there may have been
five mass extinction events. By far, the worst
was the Permian event, about 250 million years ago, in which up to 96 percent
of all species on Earth may have perished
in two separate catastrophes about ten million years apart. That was a pretty close shave
for life on Earth. So here's the question. What are the main factors that have shaped the history
of the biosphere? It turns out that astronomical, geological, and biological forces have all played a role
in the history of the biosphere. What astronomical factors affected the history
of the biosphere? Perhaps the most important was the relationship
between the Earth and the sun, which is the main source
of energy and light for all organisms on Earth. To avoid sharp
temperature fluctuations, a habitable planet needs
to have a fairly stable orbit. Now, in fact, the Earth's orbit
is constantly changing partly as a result of changes
in the shape of the orbit, partly as a result of changes
in its axis of rotation. These changes are known
as Milankovitch Cycles, after the scientist
who first analyzed them. And what they mean is that the temperature
at the surface of the Earth is constantly changing but,
fortunately for us, those changes are not sufficient to make the planet uninhabitable
or to affect the biosphere. The speed of rotation
of a planet also matters. If it rotates too slowly,
one side gets barbecued and the other is frozen. Its size also matters. If a planet is too small, it can't hold a large
enough atmosphere because there's not enough
gravitational pull. If it's too large, it may hold
such a large atmosphere that sunlight can't penetrate
to the surface. And what's more,
all of these conditions must remain stable
over many billions of years otherwise what you might get
is a planet that has a sort of
flourishing of prokaryotes that then go extinct before
any complex life forms appear. In fact, that might have been
the fate of Mars. Asteroids can also have
a huge impact on the biosphere. Walter Alvarez showed that the mass extinction
that wiped out the dinosaurs about 65 million years ago
was probably caused by the arrival of an asteroid
about 12 kilometers wide that landed off the coast
of modern Mexico. The result would have been
like a nuclear war. It would have kicked up
a huge dust cloud that would have
blocked off sunlight and prevented photosynthesis
and food production for perhaps several years. The dinosaurs were
particularly vulnerable because they were large,
so they needed lots of food, and they reproduce slowly. So it was very bad news
for them, but it was great news for our mammal ancestors, who flourished in a world
free of dinosaurs. Now, as a mammal,
think about this: if that asteroid
had been on a trajectory half an hour earlier
or half an hour later, it would have missed the Earth, the dinosaurs
would still be here, and you and I wouldn't be here. And if that asteroid
had been bigger, it might have wiped out
all life on Earth. How did geological factors affect the history
of the biosphere? Periodically, it seems that large movements
of tectonic plates may have caused
massive volcanic eruptions that released huge amounts
of the greenhouse gases methane and carbon dioxide
into the atmosphere, and reduced the amount
of atmospheric oxygen. Now, the result of this would have been a sudden,
perhaps catastrophic, global warming. It's possible that
the Permian extinction event 250 million years ago was caused by a change
like this. The exact configuration
of the continents can also make a huge difference
to global climates and to the history
of life on Earth. For example, today the fact
that a large continent, Antarctica, sits over
the South Pole explains the existence
of huge southern ice sheets, while the arrangement
of the northern continents blocks off the flow of warm,
tropical currents to the North Pole. Taken together,
these arrangements explain why today, we live
in an era of ice ages. But occasionally, it seems
that global temperatures have plummeted
much lower than this during so-called
snowball Earth events. During these events,
kilometer-thick glaciers may have covered much
of the Earth and threatened the very
existence of the biosphere. It seems likely that one
possible cause of these was an arrangement
of the continents that caused massive rainfall,
which sucked huge amounts of carbon dioxide
out of the atmosphere and led to sudden, sharp
falls in global temperatures. The end of the last of these
snowball Earth events, perhaps a little over
500 million years ago, may explain the sudden
proliferation and diversification
of life on Earth that we call
the Cambrian Explosion. How has life itself
affected the biosphere? Well, one way is by changing
atmospheres. We've already seen how
early photosynthesizers pumped oxygen
into the atmosphere and pulled out huge amounts
of carbon dioxide. By doing so, they caused
the Oxygen Holocaust, which wiped out
many early species, but it also made possible
the evolution of eukaryotes, our ancestors. Some species take carbon
out of the atmosphere to make shells. And when they die, they sink
to the bottom of the ocean. And, over millions of years,
they bury that carbon in huge sheets
of sedimentary rocks such as limestones or chalk. And in fact, if you look
at a piece of natural chalk through a magnifying glass, you may see some
of those organisms. In this way, tiny creatures
could transform geology by creating entire new
geological strata. Other organisms
also bury carbon. And today, we humans
are uncovering their remains in the form of coal, oil,
and natural gas-- the so-called fossil fuels. By burning them, we're returning
that carbon dioxide into the atmosphere
at an incredible rate. We know that the biosphere
is fragile and small. And we also know that
it's constantly under siege from a whole range
of astronomical, geological, and biological factors. Yet, so far, knock on wood, though many species
have gone extinct, life as a whole has survived
for almost four billion years. What we don't know
is how the biosphere will change in the future. And, in particular,
we don't know the role that our species, Homo sapiens, will play in that story.