In the last video, we took
a look at the mechanism for the oxidation of alcohols. In this video, we'll
do specific examples for different types of alcohols. So we'll start with
a primary alcohol. And we identified the
carbon attached to the OH as my alpha carbon. And in order for this
mechanism to work, we needed at least one hydrogen
attached to our alpha carbon. So if we react our primary
alcohol with sodium dichromate, sulfuric acid, and water-- which
we call the "Jones Reagent"-- in that mechanism, we're going
to oxidize our alpha carbon and lose one of those protons
attached to the alpha carbon, which would give us an
aldehyde functional group. All right. So we increased the number
of bonds of carbon to oxygen. We lost a bond of
carbon to hydrogen. Now, the difficulty is trying
to isolate this aldehyde. Usually, it's very
difficult to isolate, and oxidation will continue. And you'll get a
second oxidation to produce a carboxylic
acid as your final product. So if you react a primary
alcohol with the Jones Reagent, you're going to end up
with a carboxylic acid. Let's look at an example. We'll use ethanol as our
primary alcohol here. So if we react ethanol with
the Jones Reagent right here, the chromium in the
sodium dichromate chromium 6 plus, which has kind
of an orange-ish color to it. So when you're starting
off with your reaction, it's going to look a
little bit orange-ish because you've got
chromium present. And when we oxidize our
primary alcohol, when we oxidize our
ethanol, we're going to turn it into a
carboxylic acid. We're not changing
the number of carbons. So there's still going to
be two carbons-- like this-- but we're now going to change
it into a carboxylic acid. So acetic acid will
be the product. We went from this carbon
having one bond to oxygen. And we oxidized it,
so this carbon now has three bonds,
two oxygen atoms in. In that process, if we
oxidized that alpha carbon, we're going to
reduce the chromium. So the chromium's going
to go from an oxidation state of 6 plus. And eventually, it's going to
reach an oxidation state of 3 plus-- like we talked about
in the last video-- which has kind of a greenish color. So it's very easy to
monitor this reaction by just looking for
the color change. And this is a very,
very fast reaction. So this was originally used
for the breathalyzer tests to determine if
ethanol is present. Let's see. Well, what would happen if
you wanted to actually stop it at the aldehyde? Right? You don't want the
oxidation to continue to the carboxylic acid. Let's say you wanted to actually
stop it at the aldehyde. Well, to do that, you would
have to use a different reagent. So let's go ahead
and look and see how we could stop the reaction
after the first oxidation. So if we started with
a primary alcohol-- I'll just redraw a primary
alcohol really fast here, like this-- and if we wanted
to oxidize it only once so that we end up with
an aldehyde, the best reagent to use for
this is something they called "pyridinium
chlorochromate" or "PCC." Let's take a look at the
structure of the PCC reagent really fast. So pyridinium, let's go ahead
and show what that looks like. So it's derived from pyridine. Let's go ahead and
sketch that in like that. Pyridine, as a base, is
going to pick up a proton to form a positive charge here. And then, we have a CrO3
and then Cl and then with a negative charge. So this would be
the pyridinium part. So let's go ahead and
write it. "Pyridinium." And then, we have chlorochromate
over here on the right. So I'll go ahead and
write "chlorochromate." And then, that makes
it easier to see where the PCC comes from. This is the PCC reagent, which
is a much more mild agent than the Jones Reagent. It will oxidize
your primary alcohol and stop at your aldehyde. So let's go ahead and
react to ethanol again. This time, we'll use
PCC instead of Jones. All right. So if we started with ethanol
and we added PCC-- so here we go-- we're going to
end up with an aldehyde. And it's a 2-carbon an aldehyde. Right? So we can say those two
carbons are still there. And we are going to
form a double bond. And this time, it's
going to be an aldehyde. This is a ethanyl
or assets aldehyde, which will be the result
of this oxidation reaction. So that takes care
of primary alcohols. Let's look at the oxidation
of secondary alcohols now. So we'll start with a
general reaction over here. So we'll have a
secondary alcohol. So two different
alkyl groups-- or they could be the same-- attached
to our alpha carbon. Our alpha carbon is
attached to an OH. And remember, for the
mechanism to work, we must have a hydrogen
attached to that alpha carbon. So this is my secondary alcohol. Like that. Now, for secondary alcohols,
we can only get one product. Right? We saw-- in the last
video-- that when you oxidize a
secondary alcohol, you are going to end
up with a ketone. So for a secondary alcohol,
you could use either Jones or you could use PCC. So either one of
those two reagents will oxidize a secondary
alcohol to a ketone. So let's take a
look at an example. So let's start with
a secondary alcohol. So I'm just going to draw
a benzene ring on here and then attach
that benzene ring. There will be a secondary
alcohol present. So there's my secondary alcohol. And if I were to do add
either Jones or PCC, I look at my secondary alcohol,
I identify my alpha carbon. It's the one attached to the OH. And I can see there is
one hydrogen attached to that alpha carbon. This is a secondary alcohol. So when I draw the
product, I'm going to convert that secondary
alcohol into a ketone. So if I were to do that,
I would just real quickly redraw my benzene ring here. And I would converge that
alpha carbon into a ketone. So that would be my product. All right. Let's look at a
tertiary alcohol. If I had a tertiary
alcohol-- so like, tert-Butanol here like
that-- and if I attempted to oxidize that tertiary alcohol
with either Jones or PCC, we saw-- in the last
video-- no reaction. Because if I find the alpha
carbon-- this carbon right here-- there are no hydrogens
attached to that alpha carbon. And again, we saw
in the mechanism that that was necessary. Something like
tert-Butanol would not be able to be oxidized
in this fashion. So that sums up the
oxidation of alcohols.