- [Instructor] So after
getting a very late start, the English finally
started a New World colony on the coast of North America in 1607, and it was here at Jamestown. The English colonists at
Jamestown could not have been less prepared to settle a New World. They came from the Virginia Company, which was a joint-stock company, or kind of like a modern-day corporation, which was trying to make
wealth for its shareholders as quickly as possible. Now, if you think about
people in this time period, they in England are taking
a look over at Spain and seeing Spain bring ships
full of gold and silver back to Europe from the New
World, and they wanna get in on that action. And as far as they know,
the whole New World is just piled up with silver and gold. So in the first months,
they sent gentlemen, and the English definition
of a gentleman here is someone who does not work with his hands, to try to find gold in Virginia. Now, spoiler alert, there
is no gold in Virginia. But that whole first summer,
when they were there, they could have been planting crops, they could have been fishing,
I mean this is actually a pretty bountiful area when
it comes to natural resources in plants and animals. But they were trying to find
gold, they were trying to basically get rich quick,
this was the scheme. But then winter rolled around. Those who hadn't already
been killed by mosquito-borne illnesses, like malaria
or yellow fever, were now subject to starvation. And there the story gets
even more complicated, because the English settlers,
who were all men, by the way, they were adventurers, they were not there to start families,
start a long-term colony in the New World, they just
wanted to find gold and get out. So as these English colonists
are starving, they start to run afoul of local Native Americans. There were an Algonquian tribe living in the Virginia
tidewater, who were under the rule of this man here. This is a drawing of him
done by John Smith, who we'll talk about in a second. His name was Powhatan. His real name was Wahunsunacawh,
but the English called him Powhatan, and the people
that he ruled, the Powhatans. And as the English settlers
realized that they had not put away enough for practically
any stores to get them through the winter, they started
raiding the food supplies of the Powhatans, which,
of course, didn't make them very happy, they were also
trying to survive the winter. Then the Powhatans kidnapped John Smith, and there's an engraving of him here. Uh, and they kinda tried
to show him their power. So there's a legend that
Powhatan was intending to execute John Smith. The daughter of Powhatan,
Pocahontas also wasn't her real name, that was her
nickname, it kinda meant little playful person. Her real name was Matoaka,
but we know her today by her nickname, Pocahontas. And Pocahontas intervened
and kept her father from executing John Smith,
either out of the goodness of her heart or maybe because
she had a crush on him. This is pretty much completely untrue. The Disney version of this
story says that Pocahontas and John Smith go on to fall
in love and get married. The fact of the matter was that Pocahontas was probably about 13
years old at the time. And she will go on to marry an Englishman, but not John Smith, John Rolfe, who is famous in another
way, which we'll get to soon. It's also quite likely that
Powhatan didn't actually intend to execute Smith. Instead, what he was
doing was kind of a ritual of power and mercy, so he's doing kind of a mock execution, saying, "All right, I have
the power to execute you." But then, Pocahontas, playing
her ritual role, steps in to say, "No, have mercy." So he says, you know, "I could kill you "because I'm a strong leader, "but because I an also a
merciful and just leader, "I will not." So after his kidnapping, John
Smith really kinda steps up as the savior of Jamestown,
which probably would have completely collapsed were it not for him. And in 1608, he takes over and says that, "He who shall not work shall not eat." So you gotta pull your weight
if you're gonna get supported by the rest of the colonists. Nevertheless, the first
years at Jamestown were pretty rough. In the winter of 1609 to
1610, which they called the starving time, the
colonists were so hungry that they resorted to eating vermin, and they resorted to eating each other. One man actually killed and
ate his wife in one of the few known examples of English cannibalism. So Jamestown was a
pretty rough place to be. Only about 15% of the settlers who went to
Jamestown actually survived. In fact, that following spring of 1610, they decided to give up
and head back to England. They were met, just as they were leaving, by new supply ships that continued the Virginia experiment, which will become much more
successful after the discovery of tobacco. We'll get to that in the next video.