(mystical music) - [Instructor] Hindu temples
can be seen throughout the villages, towns, and cities of India. A temple can be a simple
structure by the side of the road or an entire complex of buildings. Regardless of its size, the Hindu temple is essentially a dwelling
place for the gods. (bell ringing) A principal deity resides
at the heart of each temple, like a king or queen in their palace. Other deities, attendants,
and mythical figures can also be seen as part
of the temple structure. Surrounding the temples are
stalls selling offerings and souvenirs, such as fruit, flowers, sweets, and postcards. The atmosphere around the
temple is lively and boisterous. The interior of a Hindu temple is not designed to hold
large congregations. Worshipers come and go in small groups through a hallway leading
to an inner sanctuary. Here, the image or symbol of
the main deity is located. In an active temple,
statues of the deities are covered with garlands
and draped with rich fabrics. Above the sanctuary rises a central tower, often brightly painted. The shape of the tower resembles the mythical mountain home of the gods. Other features of temples
include sacred bathing ponds, walled enclosures, and gateways in a variety of shapes and sizes. Here, at Madurai in southern India, the gateways tower
above the temple complex and are covered with statues. Some temples are no longer in active use. At Khajuraho in central India, tourists now flock to see
celebrated images of gods and loving couples adorning
the exterior walls. In Konark, near the eastern
coast, are the remains of one of the largest
temples ever built in India. It was dedicated to the sun god Surya. The original tower no longer survives, and we can only imagine its size from the smaller buildings
that still stand. (singing in foreign language) The immense variety of
temples throughout India is the result of local
styles and preferences and centuries of
architectural developments. Each attest to the artistry of countless masons and sculptors. The sculptures of deities
seen in the Asian Art Museum were once part of an active Hindu temple. They adorned the exterior
walls, interior spaces, entranceways, high wall
niches, and inner sanctuaries. (mystical music)