So how do we take
our products here that we've taken apart-- except
for the bottle, which is just a recycled good-- and we want
to see if we can create value by building something
new out of the parts that we've taken out of all
these different components here. So what we've done is we've
designed a new product that's kind of designed to get kids
excited about math and science, and in order for all these
products to work for us, we need to incorporate
some electronics. So we have an Arduino. It's a basically
programmable chip that you can easily wire
to other components. It's great for prototyping. And we have a L298
chip, which is this guy, on a motor control. It's set up as a
motor controller here, and the board that you can
see here comes as a kit. So we put that
together, and that'll allow us to control the
speed and direction of motors so that we can move
our little bot around. And then we have a
little sound chip here, and so that allows us to
record and playback sound. And so we'll control
everything with the Arduino. The motor controller will
let us drive motors around, and then this guy will help us
to record and play back sound. And we're going to use some of
the parts from these products to make something cool. So after three weeks
of development, we've come up with Bit-Zee Bot. Bit-Zee is a little
programmable robot that drives around and
has a little personality. You can control Bit-Zee with
a universal remote control-- the one that we took
apart, actually. And that sends a signal
right here to the IR sensor. And then that communicates
with the Arduino board and tells the Arduino board
that it just got a signal. And the Arduino can turn on
and off different functions, so we can make Bit-Zee
do a little dance, make its lights come on. And Bit-Zee has a
couple of switches here. There's a switch here
and a switch here, and those came out of the radio. And then you can that Bit-Zee's
nose came from a bottle cap, and its eyes came
from a bottle cap. And the power for Bit-Zee
is just some batteries that you can get from Radio
Shack in a battery holder, and the motors came
from the hair dryer. So here's one of the
hair dryer motors. And basically, we use that as
a wheel to push Bit-Zee around. Bit-Zee's also got the ability
to record and play back sound, so we use that, and you
can use the remote control to trigger that function. We've also got a
motor controller here, and that, of course,
allows us to control the motors, the
speed, and direction. The camera that we took apart,
we mounted to the board here, and that came out
of this camera. And you can use that to
take photos of things. And again, the
Arduino controls that, and we control the Arduino
with the remote control. And you can see there's what's
called a bread board here, and that's where
all the wires go to basically to allow
us to connect more things to the
Arduino And we have a number of resistors
and transistors here. The resistors
limit current flow, and the transistors are
functioning as switches, so they allow us to control
different devices, again, with our Arduino here. So this is Bit-Zee, and
Bit-Zee has got a personality. You can see Bit-Zee lights
up and does different things when it gets its
bumper pressed or when it bumps into something. So we're going to show
you more about Bit-Zee in the next few sessions.