(light tapping) - We've just seen the
beautiful rainbows you get when you refract light with a prism. Now let's think about
how we actually perceive the colors of the rainbow
in the first place. What makes yellow look like yellow? Inside our eyes, we have
special color receptors called cones, that are
sensitive to specific wavelengths of light. For example, one kind of
cone is most sensitive to red light, so when long
wavelength light hits them, that is from the red end of the spectrum, they respond by sending a
corresponding electrical signal to the brain, and
the magnitude of this signal will depend on how much red
light is present in the light. Our eyes have three main
kinds of color receptors. One is sensitive to
the longer wavelengths, redder light, one for medium
wavelengths, or greener light. And one for shorter
wavelengths, or the bluer light. The cool trick is our
brain blends signals from these three receptors
to represent any color. Colored television, and computer monitors, borrowed this same idea of
color receptors from our eyes. If you zoom into a computer screen, you'll see it's made up of
tiny rectangles, or pixels. Each of which contain a
red, green, and blue region. To display colors, the monitor illuminates these three colors accordingly. To make the screen appear yellow, the monitor turns on only the red and green regions in each pixel. From far away, these blend into yellow. And that's how we can
digitally create any color using just different amounts
of red, green, and blue. In our next exercise,
you'll try to create a color by mixing together different
amounts of red, green, and blue on your monitor. For example, to get this shade of green. It's interesting to note
that other animals have different cones in their eyes. For example, dogs only have
cones that are sensitive to yellow and blue, so red light doesn't send signals to their brain at all. The mantis shrimp, on the other hand, holds the current record for the most number of color receptors in its eyes, 12 different kinds. And scientists still don't know how they're all used to perceive color. - Voila, he is clean. (exciting fun music) - Beyond that though,
there's also a certain class of people, they're all
females, it turns out, who we call tetrachromats. They have four different
color receptors in the eye, whereas the vast majority
of the population has three. And so we think, and
expect, that their ability to discriminate colors, to
basically tell the difference between two very, very similar shades, is probably much more precise
for the tetrachromats. I wish I was one.