- Not to be totally honest with you, I don't really spend a lot of time thinking about my bodily functions. For the most part, maybe, maybe sometimes. But in the next few episodes, I'm gonna be talking about
all of the organ systems that make our lives possible
even occasionally pleasant and to start it all off, I'm gonna go straight to mission control, the nervous system. (light music) Pretty much every single animal except for some really simple ones have nervous systems which is great because it's what lets things do things like have behaviors. It makes you the sentient
living thing that you are. The whole set up here
your brain, your nerves, your spinal cord, everything is made up of specialized cells that you don't find
anywhere else in the body. Most of those are neurons
which you've seen them before they look kinda like a tree
with roots and the trunk and the branches. Neurons bundle together to form nerves, pathways that transmit
electrochemical signals from one part of your body to another. So when you bite into a piece of pizza, I love it when there's
pizza in the videos, there's something around in my taste buds recognize I'm eating something
salty and fatty and awesome and they carry that information
along a nerve pathway to my brain. And then my brain can be like yah, pizza! And then I can respond by
sending back information through different nerve pathways that say You should eat more of that pizza. And yet despite what
my brain is telling me I'm gonna try to not eat
anymore of that pizza. You wouldn't think that
it's terribly complicated to like know that pizza tastes good and to tell someone to eat more pizza but it turns out that our
brains, and our nervous systems are crazy complicated. Your nervous system basically
has a big old bureaucracy of neurons and it's divided
into two main departments, the central nervous system and
the peripheral nervous system Central and peripheral. The central nervous System, basically your brain and your spinal cord, is responsible for
analyzing and interpreting all of those data that your
peripheral nervous system, all of the nerves outside
of your brain and spine, collects and sends it way. Once the central nervous system
makes a decision about data, it sends a signal back through to the peripheral nervous system saying do this thing which the peripheral
nervous system then does. So do these systems contain
two different types of neurons: afferent and efferent. Afferent and efferent are biological terms and they're horribly confusing and I apologize on behalf
of the entire institution of Biology for them. Afferent systems carry
things to a central point and efferent systems carry things away from the central point. So afferent neurons carry
information to the brain and spinal cord for analysis and the peripheral nervous
system afferent neurons are called sensory neurons and they're activated by external stimuli like the complex and
glorious flavor of pizza and then they convert
those data into a signal for the central nervous system to process. So central nervous system
has afferent neurons too and there they bring
information into special parts of the brain. Like the part of the
brain that goes salty. Afferent neurons carry
information out of the center and the peripheral nervous system, they're called motor neurons because many of them carry
information from the brain to the spinal cord to
muscles to makes us move. For they also go to pretty
much every other organ in your body thus making
them like work and do stuff to keep you alive. And the central systems afferent neurons carry information from
special parts of the brain to other parts of the
brain or spinal chord. Of course that ended there, it would be way too simple and no good bureaucracy
has just two departments, So the peripheral nervous system has actually made up of
two different systems with two very different jobs, the somatic nervous system and
the autonomic nervous system. The somatic system controls all the stuff you think about doing
like all the information coming through your senses and the movement of
your body that it makes when you want it to make movement. So here's something interesting. Since we're totally in
love with our brains as sort of the center of
all being of ourselves, we think that all the information about everything going on in our body goes to our brain for
some kind of decision. Not so! Sometimes, like when we touch a hot stove, the afferent neurons carry the signal hot to the central nervous system but that information doesn't
even ever get to the brain. The spinal cord actually
makes that decision before it gets to the brain and sends the message
directly back to the muscles saying get your hand off
the freaking stove (beep) This bit of fancy nerve
work let's the spinal cord make decisions rather than the brain and it's called the reflex loop. So the other branch of the
peripheral nervous system, the autonomic system carries signals from the central nervous system that drive all of the
things that your body does without thinking about them, your heartbeat, your digestion, breathing, saliva production, all
of your organ functions. But we're not done yet here. We need to go deeper. The autonomic nervous system
has two divisions of its own: the sympathetic and the parasympathetic. And the jobs that these two perform aren't just different, they're completely opposite. And frankly, they're always
vying for control of the body in some kind of nervous system cage match. The sympathetic division is responsible for like freakin out. You've probably heard this talked about as the fight or flight response, in other words, stress. But stress isn't all bad, it's what saves our lives
when we're being chased by saber tooth tigers, right? The sympathetic system
prepares our body for action by increasing the heart
rate and the blood pressure, enhancing our sense of
smell, dilating the pupils, activating our adrenal
cortex to make adrenalin, shutting down blood supply to our digestive and reproductive system so that there would be
more blood available for our lungs and our muscles
when we have to like run! And even though you're not
in a constant state of panic, least I hope not, I kinda of am, that system is running
all the time everyday. But right next to it is
parasympathetic division, working hard to make sure
we take it nice and easy, dials down the heart rate
and the blood pressure, constricts our lungs, makes our nose run, increases blood flow to
our reproductive junk, our mouth produce saliva,
encourage us to poop and pee, that's basically what we have to thank for taking a nap, sitting in front of the TV, going to the bathroom and getting it on. So consider yourself lucky you got both the stress response and the
chill the heck out response working side-by-side. Because together, they create a balance or a homeostasis. Now, that's what the nervous system does, next we have to talk about how it does it. The neurons that make
up our nervous systems make it possible for our
bodies to have their very own little electric systems. So to understand how they work, you have to understand their anatomy. Like I've said before, the typical neuron has
branches like a tree. These are called dendrites
and they receive information from other neurons. Neurons also have a single axon, the trunk of the tree which
is branched at the end and transmit signals to other neurons. The axon is also covered
in a fatty material called myelin which acts as insulation. But the myelin sheath isn't continuous. There are these little
bits of exposed neuron along the axon which have sweetest names in this whole episode, they're called the nodes of ranvier. It seems like an excellent working title for the 8th Harry Potter novel. Harry Potter and the Nodes of Ranvier. Anyway, these nodes allow
signals to hop from node to node which let's the signal
travel down the nerve faster. This node hopping by the way has a name, it's called saltatory conduction, conduction because it's
electrical conduction and saltatory because
saltatory means leaping. Finally, the place
where an axon's branches come in contact with
the next cell's dendrite is called a synapse. And that's where
neurotransmitters pass information from one neuron to the next. Now think back to or
just go watch the episode that we did on cell membranes where we talked about
how materials travel down concentration gradients. Well in much the same way, all of the neurons in your
body have a membrane potential, a difference in voltage
or electrical charge between the inside and the
outside of the membrane. You might also remember that
this build-up of voltages is handled in part by
a sexy little protein called the sodium-potassium pump. Basically the pump creates
voltage differential like charging the battery by moving three positively sodium ions out for every two potassium ions it lets in creating a net negative
charge inside the cell relative to the outside. When a neuron is inactive, this is called it's resting potential and voltage is about -70 millivolts. But in addition to the pumps, neurons also have ion channels. These are proteins that
straddle the membrane but they're a lot simpler
and don't need ATP to power them. Each cell could have more
than 300 different kinds of ion channels each tailored to accept a specific ion. Now don't zone out here because all of this stuff
is gonna come into play when a neuron becomes active. This happens when an input
or stimulus creates a change in the neuron that
eventually reaches the axon creating what's called
an action potential. A brief event where the
electrical potential of the cell rapidly rises and falls. When an action potential begins like when a molecule of sugar touches one of my sweet taste buds, some ion channels open and let those positive sodium ions rush in so that the insides starts
to become less negative. With an off-stimulus, the internal tract of the neuron reaches a certain threshold which triggers more sodium
channels to respond, open the flood gates to
let even more ions in. That's happening on one tiny
little area of the neuron. But this change in voltage creeps over to the next bunch of sodium channels which are also sensitive to voltage and so they open. That exchange triggers the
next batch and the next batch And so on down the line. So the signal changing
voltage travels down the neuron's membrane like a wave. But remember the myelin sheath
insulates most of the neuron and just leave those little nodes exposed. So instead of being a steady wave, the wave jumps from node to node speeding up the travel
time of action potential down a neuron. That's your saltatory conduction at work. When the wave reaches
the end of the neuron and triggers a release
of neurotransmitters from the neuron through exocytosis, and those neurotransmitters
then flow across the synapse to the next neuron where they trigger another action potential over there. Now by this time so many sodium ions have gotten inside the first neuron that the difference between
the outside and the inside is actually reversed. The inside is positive and
the outside is negative. And it seems like neurons hate that more than pretty much anything else. So it fixes itself. The sodium channels close and the potassium channels open up. The positive potassium ions rush down both the concentration and
electrochemical gradients to get the heck out of the cell. That brings the charge inside the cell back to negative on the inside and positive on the outside. Notice though, that now the sodium is on the inside of the cell and the potassium is on the outside, and in the opposite places
of where they started so the sodium - potassium
pumps it back to work, burn up some ATP to
pump the sodium back out and the potassium back in. And whew! Things are now back to
resting potential again. So that my friends is how action potential allows neurons to communicate signals down a whole chain of neurons from the outer reaches of
the peripheral nervous system all the way up to the spinal cord and to the brain and then back out again. So let's zoom out, look at the broad few here. I'm gonna take a bite of this pizza. All my taste buds have neurons in em. Each of my taste buds contains
between 50 to 100 specialized taste receptor neurons. Chemicals from this beautiful
pizza dissolved in saliva and then stimulate the dendrites on the afferent neuron. So this generates bunch
of action potentials that travel from the
afferent neurons in my tongue all the way to my brain which is like my goodness, I think that's pizza! Let's have another bite. The brain then sends messages through the afferent nerve pathways to do all sorts of things. One, chew which involves
constricting the muscles in my jaw over and over again and two, lower my head
done to catch another bite which involves all kinds of neck muscles, three, swallowing which involves
constricting the muscles in my throat and esophagus, four, opening my mouth again
to receive another bite. That signal is also going to my jaw. And let's not even
mention what's gonna go on with the digestion of this bad boy driven by the autonomic nervous system but digestion is still a
couple of episodes now. Hopefully, there will be more pizza.