So now we're going to
connect the negative side of our battery to our switches. So we took a white wire
and stripped about 3/4 of an inch of the
insulation off of that wire. We're going to
bend it and loop it through the center
terminal in one of our switches,
our single-pole, double-throw switches. And we chose a white wire
here because it stands out against the black
AA battery housing, makes it a little easier to see. You can use really
any color wire you want as long as it's
copper or aluminum or something conductive. OK, so we're just
crimping that wire against that terminal
that comes out of our single-pole,
double-throw switch. And the wire is
sticking straight up, and that's going to make
it easier to connect to. So now we're trimming off
the back end of the wire. And I actually trimmed it a
little shorter than I probably should have so I would make
the wire stick out about 1/2 an inch past the AA battery
housing there at the end. Now we're going to connect the
two terminals of our switches, the two center terminals
of our switches together. So in order to do this, we
need to take about 1/2 inch of insulation off of two sides
of our remaining white wire. And we're going to
thread those wires again through the terminal blocks. And so this wire is going
through the center terminal block on the opposite
switch that we've put. Now we're going to also strip
the other end of the wire here off to make it easier
to connect to the other side. So this is basically
allowing us to provide a way to connect the negative side
of our battery to our switches. And these switches
basically allow us to reverse the polarity
of the motors causing the bot to backup up. So they are a very simple way
of hardware programming the bot. OK, so we're just running
our wire through there, and we want to loop it up. And again, we're going to
take our needle nose pliers, and we're going to crimp
that wire tightly in place so that we have a good
firm electrical connection. And it's really important
that those connections are very tight because,
since we're not using solder, the electricity won't flow if
those connections aren't tight and so the bot won't perform
like it's supposed to. So that wire is just
a little bit long. So what I'm going to do
is I'm going to take it and-- this one's come loose
just a little bit here, so I'm going to crimp it down
again on the other switch. And then the wire
that we just attached, it's a little bit long, so I'm
going to-- instead of cutting it shorter, since I've
already stripped it, I'm just going to
loop it around. And then I'm going to twist
it against that exposed wire, just like what we did with
the LEDs and the resistors, twisting those two
wires together. And that'll allow us to
have a good connection and spread the negative side
of our battery to our switches. So we've got our
negative black wire here, and we're going to trim it. And then we're going
to strip it again. We'll strip probably
about-- 1/2 to 3/4 of an inch of wire
exposed is good. It's always good to have a
little bit extra wire there in case-- you just want to make
sure that it is not too short. So again, this one's
kind of tricky to strip because the installation
is very soft, and so you kind of have
to really work with it. But you don't want
to pull too hard, or you'll, again,
damage those strands. And this is a stranded wire
as opposed to a solid wire. So we're going to
take those strands, and we are going to wrap them
around our twisted-together wires. And that's going to
allow us to connect the negative side of our
battery to our switches and begin to build the
rest of the circuit that we need to
make the bot work. So now we're going to
twist the wires together. And it's kind of tricky
because the stranded wire tends to spread out all
over, so you have to work with it a little bit. And it's really important to
keep all those stranded wires against the other
two solid core wires because if you have a stray
wire sticking out somewhere, it could cause a short
or make a bad connection. So we're just again
twisting the wires together. And to do that really well,
we want to use our needle nose pliers, and we're
trying to get them as close together as possible. In order to trap
those stranded wires, we're going to take a piece
of-- a little piece of aluminum foil, and we'll wrap
it around to the wires like we did for the LEDs. And that just helps to
prevent the stranded wire from sticking out somewhere
it shouldn't and also helps to conduct electricity. Sometimes, it's hard
to get the aluminum foil to stick to the
switches, but you can do it-- or I should say stick
to the wires there. And then again, to hold
everything together and insulate it,
we're going to take a small piece of electrical
tape about 1/2 an inch long, and we're just going
to wrap it around that and squeeze it very
tightly to make sure that we've got a
good connection. Again, this is all about having
really tight connections. So what we're going to do
is, before we finish anything else-- or before we glue
anything else in place, we're going to test to
make sure that we're getting power that flows. So now that we have
our LED connected. The switch does work, so
that indicates that, yes, the negative wire is working. And so we'll try
the other one too. Yeah. So we do have power
flowing through that part of the circuit. So now what we can
do is we can hot glue our negative side
of the battery in place. Make sure to disconnect the
resistors before you do that. So we're just going to take a
little bit of hot glue here. And, again, it's about half
the size of a dime, a blob just enough to connect-- to
cover over the connector. And we want to make sure that
the hot glue flows completely around the wire. And that will help
to hold it in place so that as we run our bot,
it stays and doesn't pop out. So now we're ready
for the next step.