Voiceover: Here's an example of a nucleophilic addition reaction to an aldehyde or a ketone. So over here on the left,
it could be an aldehyde, or we could change that to form a ketone. And if you add water to
an aldehyde or ketone, you form this product
over here on the right, which is called a hydrate, or also called a gem-diol, or geminal diol because these two OHs here are on the same carbon, so like they're twins. And this reaction is at equilibrium. So let's think about the
aldehyde, or the ketone. We know the carbonyl on
the aldehyde or ketone is polarized, so we
know that the oxygen has more electronegatives than carbons, so it withdraws some electron densities. So this oxygen here is
partially negative, and this carbonyl carbon is
partially positive, like that. And therefore the carbonyl carbon, since it's partially positive,
is electrophillic, so it wants electrons. And it can get electrons from water. So let's go ahead and draw the water molecule right here. Water can function as a nucleophile. It has two lone pairs of electrons, this oxygen here is partially negative, and so we're going to get a nucleophile attacking our electrophile. So a lone pair of electrons on the oxygen is going to attack our
carbonyl carbon like that, So the nucleophile
attacks the electrophillic portion of the molecule,
and these pi electrons here kick off onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead and
draw the results of our nucleophilic attack here, and so we now have our oxygen
bonded to this carbon, and this oxygen still has two hydrogens bonded to it, so I'm
gonna go ahead and draw in those two hydrogens. There's still a lone pair of electrons on that oxygen, which gives that oxygen a +1 formal charge. And then this carbon here is bonded to another oxygen,
which had two lone pairs of electrons around it,
and now it picked up another one, so a -1 formal
charge on this oxygen, and there's still an R group bonded to it, and a hydrogen over here, like that. And so let's try to follow
some electrons here. So one of the lone pairs
of electrons on the oxygen formed a bond with our carbon, so I'm saying that's these electrons
right here like that. And then we can think
about our pi electrons. So, our pi electrons
in here, as kicking off onto our oxygen, so it
doesn't really matter which one of these three
it is, right, let's say it's that one, and we get
this as our intermediate. And so next, we can think about an acid-base reaction. So, another water molecule comes along right here, and so we
know water can function as an acid or a base,
and so this lone pair of electrons could
take, let's say it takes this proton right here, and leaves these electrons behind on our oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw the result of that acid-base reaction, and so we would have our oxygen
here, would now be bonded to only one hydrogen,
and, now let's see, we still have our
negatively charged oxygen over here on the right, and then we have our R group, and our hydrogen like that, and we still have this
lone pair of electrons, and we just picked up another lone pair of electrons, so let me
go ahead and show those, so let me go ahead and use blue for those electrons, and these
electrons in here, ended up on this oxygen, and so
we're almost to our final product, we've almost formed our hydrate. We just need to do one
more acid-base reaction. And so of course, another water molecule could come along. So water could function
as an acid or a base, and a lone pair of
electrons on this oxygen could take this proton, and leave these electrons behind, and then that of course would give us our final product. So that would give us
our hydrate over here. And you could of course
change this hydrogen to an R prime, change this hydrogen to an R prime if you wanted
to, and you would get this over here, so your
hydrate or your gem diol. And so that's the general mechanism for uncatalyzed reaction here. Let's look at some examples, and it's important to remember
that this reaction is at equilibrium, and so let's
look at three examples. Our first example is formaldehyde. So, if you react formaldehyde with water, you form your hydrate over here on the right, and in this case, the equilibrium is to the right, favors the formation of the hydrate,
and that's because aldehydes are very reactive. And we talked about why in the video on the reactivity of aldehydes and ketones, so we've got very polarized
carbonyl situation here, so this carbon
right here is partially positive, and we have
these hydrogens here, which don't take up a whole lot of space, and so we have greater polarization than ketones and also decreased
steric hindrance, and so because of the high reactivity of aldehydes, then this
product is favored. If we look at the next reaction, we no longer have an aldehyde. This is a ketone, this is acetone. And so adding water to acetone gives us this as our product for our hydrate. Except, we know that ketones are not as reactive as aldehydes, and so this time the equilibrium is to the left. It favors the formation of the ketone. Let's look at another one. So this is acetaldehyde. And so if we add water to acetaldehyde over here, we form this
as our hydrate product. And once again, we know
that these reactions occur because of our
carbonyl carbon right here being partially positive,
so the oxygen withdraws some electron density like that. So, we could make aldehydes or ketones more reactive by adding something else that withdraws electron density from that carbonyl carbon, and
one thing you could do, is add an electronegative
atom like halogen, so let's go ahead and do that. Let's add three halogens here. Let's add three chlorines
to this carbon, the one adjacent to our carbonyl carbon. And those electron withdrawing groups, those very electronegative atoms withdraw some electron density, so they're gonna withdraw
electron density this way, once again, away from our carbonyl carbon, and so this carbonyl carbon gets even more partially positive by the addition of these electronegative atoms. And the more positive you
make that carbonyl carbon, the more electrophilic you make it, and therefore, the more the nucleophile, which is water, is going to attack, and so you make it even more
reactive by adding these, and so you can push the equilibrium even more to the right. You can form more of your product. And so let's go ahead and draw the product of that reaction, so we would put three chlorines on here
like that, and so you could also do this with
ketones, and you could make ketones much more
reactive by doing that. And so this particular reaction is a little bit famous. Over here on the left is
trichloroacetaldehyde, and then, once you've formed the hydrate of that, you've formed chlorol hydrate, and this is famous for
being knock-out drops. And so some of the old
references to it are, "slip someone a Mickey Finn." So you could slip chloral
hydrate into someone's drink, and it was a
knock-out drop situation. And so just a little bit of an interesting reaction here for formation of hydrates.