- So, plants are freakin' great because they have this
magical wizard power that allows them to take
carbon dioxide out of the air and covert it into wonderful, fresh, pure oxygen for us to breathe. They're also way cooler than us because unlike us, and every other
animal on the planet, they don't require all
kinds of hot pockets and fancy coffee drinks
to keep them going. The only thing plants need to make themselves a delicious
feast is sunlight and water. Just sunlight and water. Paula Deen can't do that, and she makes fried egg,
bacon, donut burgers. (young child chattering) I'm telling you, this
is surprisingly good. This is a different kind of magic, but you know part of this is plants. And, everything in it, in fact everything that is in this McDonald's, in fact, everything that you have
ever eaten in your life, is either made from plants or made from something that ate plants. So, let's talk about plants. [Crash Course opening theme] Plants probably evolved more
than 500 million years ago. The earliest land plant fossils date back to more than 400 million years ago. These plants were lycophytes, which are still around today, and which reproduce through
making a bunch of spores, shedding them, saying
a couple of Hail Marys, and hoping for the best. Some of these lycophytes went
on to evolve into scale trees, which are now extinct,
but huge, swampy forests of them use to cover the Earth. Some people call these scale
tree forests, coal forests because there were so many of them and they were so dense, and
they covered the whole Earth, that they eventually fossilized
into giant seams of coal, which are very important
to our lifestyles today. So this is now called
the Carboniferous Period. See what we did there, because
coal is made out of carbon, so they named the epoch
of geological history over how face meltingly intense and productive these forests were. I would give my left eyeball,
three fingers on my left hand, the middle ones so that
I could hang loose, and my pinky toe, if
I were able to go back and see these scale forests because they would be freakin' awesome! Anyway, angiosperms, or
plants that use flowers to reproduce, didn't develop until the end of the Cretaceous Period, about 65 million years ago, just as the dinosaurs were dying out. Which makes you wonder if, in
fact, the first angiosperms (dramatic violin music)
assassinated all the dinosaurs I'm not saying that's
definitely what happened, it's a little bit suspicious. Anyway, on a cellular level,
plant and animal cells are actually pretty similar. They're called eukaryotic cells, which means they have a good kernel and that kernel is the
nucleus. Not, new-cue-lus! And, the nucleus can be
found in all sorts of cells. Animal cells, plant cells, algae cells, you know, basically all the popular kids. Eukaryotic cells are way more advanced than prokaryotic cells. We have the eukaryotic cell and we have the prokaryotic cell. Prokaryotic basically means
'before the kernel', pro kernel. And then we have the Eukaryotic
which means 'good kernel'. The Prokaryotes include your
bacteria and your Archaea, which you've probably met
before in your lifetime. Every time you've had
strep throat, for example. Or, if you've ever been in a hot spring or an oil well or something. They're everywhere. They cover the planet. They cover you! But, like I said, the eukaryotes have that separately enclosed nucleus. That all important nucleus
that contains its DNA and is enclosed by a separate membrane. Because the eukaryotic
cell is a busy place, there's chemical reactions going on in all different parts of the cell, it's important to keep
those places divided up. Eukaryotic cells also have these little stuff doing factories called organelles. Because we decided that we would name everything something weird, but organelles and they're suspended in cytoplasm, continuing with the really
esoteric terminology that you're going to have to know. Cytoplasm is mostly just water but it's some other stuff too. Well, basically if you want
to know about the structure of the eukaryotic cell, you should watch my video on animal cells, which, let's just link to it right here. Plant and animal cells are
very similar environments. They control themselves
in very similar ways. But, obviously, plants and
animals are very different things, so what are the
differences in a plant cell that makes it so different from an animal? Well, that's what we're gonna go over now. First, plants are thought to
have evolved from green algae, which evolved from some
more primitive prokaryotes. And, something plants
inherited from their ancestors, was a rigid cell wall surrounding the plasma membrane of each cell. So, this cell wall of
plants is mainly made out of cellulose and lignin, which are two really tough compounds. Cellulose is, by far, the
most common, and easy to find, complex carbohydrate in nature. Though, if you were to include
simple carbohydrates as well, glucose would win that one. And this is because, fascinating fact, cellulose is, in fact, just
a chain of glucose molecules. You're welcome! If you want to jog your
memory about carbohydrates and other organic molecules, you can watch this episode, right here. Anyway, as it happens, you know who needs carbohydrates to live? Uh, animals. But, you know what's a real
pain in the ass to digest? Cellulose. Plant's weren't born yesterday. Cellulose is a far more complex structure than you'll generally
find in a prokaryotic cell and it's also one of the main things that differentiates a plant
cell from an animal cell. Animals do not have this rigid cell wall. They have a flexible membrane, that frees them up to move around and eat plants and stuff. However, the cell wall gives
structure to a plant's leaves, roots and stems and also
protects it to a degree. Which is why trees aren't
squishy and they don't giggle when you poke them.
(child giggles) The combination of lignin and cellulose is what makes trees, for example, able to grow really,
really, freakin' tall. Both of these compounds
are extremely strong and resistant to deterioration. When we eat food, lignin and cellulose is what we call 'roughage'
because we can't digest it. It's still useful for
us in certain aspects of our digestive system,
but it's not nutritious. Which is why eating a stick
is really unappetizing. And your shirt, this is all
100 percent plant shirt, but it doesn't taste good. But, we can't go around
eating wood like a beaver, or grass like a cow, because
our digestive systems just aren't set up for that. However, other animals,
that don't have access to delicious donut burgers, have either developed gigantic
stomachs, like sloths, or multiple stomachs, like goats, in order to make living eating cellulose. These animals have a kind of
bacteria in their stomachs that actually does the digestion
of the cellulose for it. Breaks the cellulose into
individual glucose molecules which can then be used for food. But, other animals, like
humans, mostly carnivores, don't have any of that kind of bacteria, which is why it's so difficult
for us to digest sticks. But there is another reason
why cellulose and lignin are very, very useful to us as
humans: it burns my friends! This is basically what would
happen in our stomachs. It's oxidizing, it's producing the energy that we would get out of
it if we were able to, except it's doing it very, very quickly. And this is the kind of energy, this energy that's coming
out of it right now, is the energy that would be
useful to us if we were cows! But we're not, so instead we just use it to keep ourselves warm on
the cold winter nights. (blows) Oww! It's on me!
Oww! Haaa! Anyway, while we animals
are walking around, spending our lives searching for ever more digestible plant materials, plants don't have to do any of that. They just sit there and
they make their own food. And we know how they do that. They do it with photosynthesis. Another thing that plant cells have that animal cells just don't have are plastids, the
organelles that plants use to make and store
compounds that they need! And you wanna know something super interesting about plastids? They and their fellow
organelles, the mitochondria, that generate energy for the cell, actually started as bacteria that were absorbed into plant cells very early in their evolution. Like, maybe some protist-like
cell absorbed a bacteria and it found that
instead of just digesting that bacteria for the energy that it had, it could use that bacteria! That bacteria could
create energy for the cell or covert light into
lovely glucose compounds. Which is crazy! Nobody's really precisely
sure how this happened, but they know that it did
happen because plastids and mitochondria have double membranes, one from the original bacteria and one from the cell,
as it wrapped around it. Cool, huh? Anyway, the most important of the plastids are the chloroplasts,
which convert light energy from the sun, into sugar and into oxygen. Which the plant doesn't need,
so it just gets rid of it! All of the green parts of
the plant that you see: the leaves, the non woody
stems, the unripened oranges, are all filled with cells that
are filled with chloroplasts. Which are making food and oxygen for you. You are very welcome, I'm sure. Another big difference between
plant cell and an animal cell is the large central vacuole. Plant cells can push water into vacuoles which provides turgor
pressure from inside the cell, which reinforces the
already stiff cellulose wall and makes the plant rigid like a crunchy piece of celery or something. Usually, when soil dries out, or a celery stalk sits in your
refrigerator for too long, the cells lose some water,
turgor pressure drops, and the plant wilts or gets all floppy. So, the vacuole is a kind of
storage container for the cell, it can contain water, which
plants need to save up, just in case, and also other
compounds the cell might need. It can also contain and export stuff that the cell doesn't
need anymore, like wastes. Some animal cells also have vacuoles, but they aren't as large
and they don't have this very important job of
giving the animal shape. So, now let's do this. Let's just go over the
basics of plant cell anatomy. One, they have a cell wall
that's made out of cellulose and so it's really rigid
and not messin' around. Two, they've got a nucleus
in it's own little baggie that's separate from all
the other organelles. This is basically the headquarters
of any eukaryotic cell. It stores the genetic
information for a plant and also acts as the
cell's activities director, telling it how to grow, when to split when to jump, and how
high, that sort of thing. Animal cells have this
kind of nucleus too, but prokaryotes don't,
which is why they're stuck, hanging around in oil wells and stuff. Three, they've got plastids,
including chloroplasts, which are awesome, green,
food making machines. And four, they have a central vacuole that stores water and other stuff and helps give the cell
structural support. And so, stack these cells
on top of one another like apartments in an apartment building and you got a plant. And, all of these unique features are what makes it possible for plants to put food on our table
and air in our lungs. So, next time you see a plant, just go ahead and shake its hand, thank it for its hard
work, and its service.