Normally ethers are
very unreactive, which is what makes them
good organic solvents. However, if you react
them with strong acids, you get acidic
cleavage of the ether. So if we start with our
ether over here on the left, and we add excess hydrogen
halide, and we heat things up, the ether gets cleaved to form
an alcohol and an alkyl halide. Normally, the
reaction conditions will then convert that alcohol
into yet another alkyl halide. So you will usually end
up with two alkyl halides as your product. However, not always. In terms of what hydrogen
halide do you use? HBr and HI work the best. And that's because when
you have the bromide or the iodide anion, the
electrons are further away from the nucleus,
which increases the nucleophilic strength
of those anions compared to, say, something
like chlorine, where the electrons are
closer to the nucleus since it's a smaller size. Let's look at the mechanism for
the acidic cleavage of ethers. And we start with
our ether like this. So this is our
ether, which we are going to react with
our hydrogen halide. So we start with an
acid base reaction. So a strong acid
like hydrabromic acid will donate protons. The ether is going
to act as a base. Lone pair of electrons
are going to pick up the proton from our
hydrogen halide. The electrons will kick off
onto the halogen like that. So we will end up with-- we're
going to protonate our ether. So we have a hydrogen there. We have a lone pair of
electrons on this oxygen, which gives this oxygen a
plus 1 formal charge. So we also have our halogen. It used to have three
lone pairs of electrons. It just picked up one more
lone pair of electrons to form a halide
anion, which is going to function as our nucleophile. So our nucleophile is going
to attack the carbon bonded to the oxygen. And then the electrons between
the carbon and the oxygen are going to kick
off onto the oxygen. So this is an SN2 type mechanism
where your halide anion is going to function
as your nucleophile. OK. So this is why bromide anions
and iodide anions work better than chloride anions. So the result of that
nucleophilic attack-- we now have are alcohol. So we got an extra lone pair of
electrons on our oxygen there. And our R-prime group is
now bonded to our halogen. So we've made our first
alkyl halide like that. And sometimes the
reaction will stop here. And sometimes the
reaction will keep going. So if the reaction
keeps going, we can get another hydrogen
halide molecule in here. And so the lone pair of
electrons on our alcohol are now going to
function as a base and pick up a proton, which
kicks these electrons off onto our halogen. So if we draw the result
of that acid-base reaction, we're going to
protonate our alcohol. So our alcohol now
has two hydrogens, a lone pair of electrons on our
oxygen, plus 1 formal charge. And our halogen now has an
extra lone pair of electrons, giving it a negative charge,
making it a halide anion. So in the next step
of the mechanism, the halide anion will
function as our nucleophile and attack the carbon
bonded to the oxygen, kicks these electrons off
onto the oxygen. And that's how we make
our second alkyl halide. So we'd form R-X as
our other product. And also water would be produced
in this as well-- so H2O, like that. Now, I drew this second
part of the mechanism like it's an SN2 mechanism. And it would be an
SN2 mechanism if we were starting with
a primary alcohol. So if this guy over here
is a primary alcohol, and after it gets
protonated, a primary alcohol would work the best
for an SN2 mechanism because that would be
decreased steric hindrance. However, if we were
dealing with something like a tertiary
alcohol at this point, things would likely proceed
via an SN1 type mechanism. So it's important to look at the
structure of the alkyl halide. Let's do an example of the
acidic cleavage of ethers. And we'll start with an
ether that looks like this. All right. So we're going to
react this ether with excess hydrobromic acid. And we're going
to heat things up. And when we think
about our products, we know that the ether's
going to go away. And we know that we're going
to get two alkyl halides out of this. So we just need to
find our alkyl groups. So if I look over here,
here's one of my alkyl groups. And if I look over here,
here's my other alkyl group. So all I have to do is
turn those alkyl groups into alkyl halides. And they're going to
be alkyl bromides, since we're using
hydrobromic acid here. So I'm going to draw one of
my alkyl halides like that. So it would be bromine
attached to the ring. And then my other
alkyl halide will be this methyl group over here. So I take a methyl group
and I attach it to bromine. So methyl bromide would
be my other product. And we'd also produce
water, as well. But your major
organic products would be these two alkyl halides. Let's do another one. This one will make it
a little bit tricky. So in three
dimensions-- so we're going to have to think about
acidic cleavage of ethers in three dimensions. So it makes it much harder. So if I look at an ether,
which looks like this, and I add, once again,
excess hydrobromic acid, and I heat things
up, I'm going to get acidic cleavage of that ether. And when I'm trying to
figure out the products, I know that oxygen's
going to go away. And I know that the carbons
that are bonded to that oxygen are the ones that are going
to form my alkyl halides. So I look at this carbon
that's bonded to my oxygen. That's going to be
bonded to a halogen. And if I look at this carbon
on the other side of my ether, that carbon is also going
to bonded to a halogen. So when I'm trying to
draw the products-- so this ring here is
going to stay the same. So I'm just going to go ahead
and draw my ring like that. All right. And let's first look at
this carbon right here, this one in red, which
is this one over here. So it was already bonded to
a methyl group right here. And the bond between the
carbon and the oxygen is going to break. And we're going to form a new
bond with our halogen, which happens to be bromine. So we're going to put
bromine there like that. And the opposite side, when we
look at this carbon over here-- so let's go ahead and
draw out that carbon in. So we're going to get like that. So it's the carbon in blue. The bond between the carbon
in blue and the oxygen is going to break. And there's going to
be a new bond formed to our bromine,
which is our halogen. So we can go ahead and draw
our bromine in there like that. And so that will be our product. So we get two alkyl halides in
the same molecule this time. We could draw the
product like that, or we could kind of flatten
it out a little bit. And let's think about
that ring system there. So what kind of a ring
system do we have? We have one, two, three, four,
five, six carbons present. So if I'm going to draw this
molecule in a different way, I would have a six carbon
ring-- so cyclohexane. And if I take a look at-- let's
do this carbon right here. So that's this carbon. What is attached to that carbon? Well, this carbon is
attached to another carbon, there are two methyl groups,
and then a bromine like that. It doesn't really
matter the order that you put your methyl
groups and your bromine. And this is because
this carbon right here is not a chirality center. So you don't have to
worry too much about that. Let's look at this carbon
down here-- so in green. So I'll make this one
down here in green. There's a methyl group
attached to that carbon. So if I make a methyl group
attach to that carbon right here. And there's also a bromine
attached to that carbon. So these are just
two different ways to represent the exact same
molecule for your product after the acidic cleavage
of the original ether. So kind of a tough one
because your thinking in three dimensions here. Let's do one more example for
the acidic cleavage ethers. And we'll start with ethyl. Let's do ethyl
phenol ether here. So I'll draw a phenol group. So here is our phenol group. And then we'll have an
ethyl group on this side. So what will be the product
of ethyl phenol ether reacted with excess hydrobromic acid,
and everything is heated up? All right, so let's think
about the mechanism. We know that in our
mechanism the first step is to protonate the ether. So the ether's going
to function as a base, pick up a proton from
hydrobromic acid. So if we go ahead and
draw the first step, the acid base reaction there. So we're going to
protonate our ether. And that means there's going
to be a hydrogen attached to our oxygen now. Lone pair of
electrons still left on our oxygen, plus 1 formal
charge on our oxygen like that. Well, we have the
bromide anion left over after HBr donates a proton. Br negative is left. The bromide anion is going to
function as my nucleophile. And it's going to proceed
via an SN2 mechanism. Therefore, it's going to
attack the least stericly hindered alkyl group,
which is, of course, the alkyl group on the right. So lone pair of
electrons is going to attack this
carbon right in here. And these electrons would
then kick off onto my oxygen. So if I draw the result of
that nucleophilic attack, I now have my ring over here. And I just turned
everything into an OH group. Because now I have an
oxygen with two lone pairs of electrons on it like that. So I make phenol as one
of my products here. And the the bromide anion just
added on to an ethyl group. So we're going to form methyl
bromide as our other product. So ethyl bromide would be
the other product here. And let me just
highlight those carbons. So these two carbons
are these two carbons right there for my product. And it turns out
that this reaction will stop at this point. So these are your two products. Phenol and ethyl bromide. And the reaction doesn't
really continue on. Let's pretend like the
reaction does continue on. And we'll see why it
actually stops here. So if we were to continue
on in our mechanism, we would next
protonate the phenol. So we have HBr here again. The addition of
hydrobromic acid, we would protonate the phenol. So if we protonated
that phenol right there, we would get something that
looks like this, with a plus 1 formal charge on our oxygen. And we would also form
the bromide to anion. And if this mechanism were
to continue like usual, the bromide anion would
function as our nucleophile. And it would attack this
carbon right here on our ring. But that's going
to be a problem. That's going to be
a problem if you're talking about an SN2 mechanism. Because the benzene
ring has all the stuff that gets in the way
to stericly hinder that bromide anion
as a nucleophile. So because of that
steric hindrance, the bromide anion cannot attack. So there's no SN2 mechanism here
to form another alkyl halide. So that won't work. What about an SN1
type mechanism? So if this is an
SN1 type mechanism, we would need to
form a carbocation. And so these electrons in here
would kick off onto the oxygen. And we could form a
carbocation that way. So it would be plus 1
charge on that carbon. The problem with
this carbocation is there's no resonance
stabilization. We can't draw any
resonant structures to help stabilize this. And so therefore, an SN1
mechanism won't work either. So no SN1 mechanism to turn
everything into a second alkyl halide. No SN2 mechanism because
of steric hindrance. And for those
reasons we are stuck with our phenol as our
product, and ethyl bromide as our other products. So only one alkyl halide was
produced in this reaction.