At Imagineering the creation of a
character involves many people, across many departments, and with many different skills. From sculptors to animators, engineers, machinists, fabricators, and
more. With so many people in the mix, how do we make sure that everyone has the
same idea about how the character will look and behave? One of the tools we use
is called a character sheet. Character sheets consists of a variety of sketches. Which define how a character will look, what they will wear, and how they will
move. It also contains notes that define the personality and background of a
character such as: Where do they come from? Where do they live? What do they say?
and How do they say it? Think of it as a blueprint that informs all decisions
about such a character. For the story department a character sheet is a breakdown of what constitutes this character. A character sheet for the
Shaman is that she is extremely elegant and she moves in a fluid-like manner.
That she is extremely expressive and likes to use her body, it's part of her
communication. If you only have a sketch for a character sheet, that's better than
nothing, not having an image at all. Any type of visuals always helps in
developing your character sheet. If you go back and you look at the history of, you know, the Walt Disney films, back to things like Snow White and Sleeping
Beauty, in the woods there's always these creatures around these princesses. We had
this question of, "Could we fill our lands with characters like that?" You know, this
idea of a woodland creature intelligence. It's a small little thing that sees you and
hears you, but doesn't really speak. And you know understands the world around
them, but doesn't really have human intelligence. So I think with tiny life
we kind of created a personality board. So we knew we wanted to express some
different types of emotion. So, what we would do is we would say "okay, we want to
think about how an introvert would say 'hello'" and we would articulate that out
and make a collection of little storyboards.
What does excited look like? What does sad look like? What does surprised look
like? What does angry look like? And we would show those sketches to people and
have them guess what emotion we were trying to communicate. And the emotions
that we communicated really, really clearly and people immediately guessed,
we circled and said, "oh, that's, that's the way to convey that emotion." My biggest piece of advice when coming up with a character sheet, is to come up with a
strong key pose first. Like - what is your character thinking - figure that out first.
You know, is your character going to, you know, make some soup, right? So draw that
character with a big you know cauldron of soup and a spoon. And he's mixing
it and maybe that's what the story is, but maybe something's jumping up out of
that soup. So when I was working on Mystic Manor, we had Albert, the monkey,
and we knew he was gonna be mischievous. Albert's a good natured character, but
he's curious. So in one scene he's opening up the music box letting this
music dust escape, but then as the story goes along we keep putting Albert in
more peril. So he's hanging on this pole, and he is poking his finger in the mouth
of this little baby Venus flytrap, and unbeknownst to him, mama flytrap is
behind Albert and is about to chop his tail off. You have to immediately read, "Oh
Albert is going to get hit with an axe here," right. So we've got Albert pinned up
against the wall, there's darts and arrows and stuff pinning him up against
the wall, and a little axe that has just, you know, missed his legs. It does not
need to be a beautiful drawing. It can be stick figures. I always felt like I
needed to be able to draw very well to do that and I can't draw all that well.
So, I think, I use puppetry too to try those interactions and sort of try to
try to mock up a character. So the ability to wrap some cloth around
your hand, to see how something would move, you can you can really get very far
with very little. It just serves as a tool to help communicate what it is
that's going through your character's head. Character sheets are particularly
useful for designing animatronic figures when it comes to the motions they will
perform. Such as where will they bend, rotate, squash, or stretch. With
animatronics, we have to define very precisely how each part of the character
will move. In Guardians of the Galaxy: Mission
Breakout, Rocket shows up in the pre-show room of the attraction. And he comes in
and it's completely unexpected and he kind of starts making his way around the
room. You see his tail, you see his hand, and then finally, Rocket shows up. He hits
his head on a pipe and he starts to explain what's going on in this thing
and how he needs your help on this mission. So this is the functionality
that the Rocket figure has, right. He can, you know, he has this ability to bend at a pelvis. He has this ability to bend inside of his torso and his head nod and
turn and tilt, and these various different things. And we use all of these
together to design the criteria for what Rockets gonna do. And to ultimately this
is what we'll have to have to work with in the actual performance. Every movement a character makes from a head turn to a knee bend, is called a function. We'll go
into more detail about functions in the next video So the character sheet, is
both an artistic tool and a technical tool. It's the agreement between the
creative and engineering teams about In the next exercise, you'll have the chance to analyze some character sheets from Imagineering, as well as to develop one for your own character.