So in this video, we're going
to begin to wire up our motors. We're using some blue wire. Again, this is just to
make the wire stand out so it's easy to
see where it goes. You can use any color you want. It's 22-gauge wire, solid-core. So you're going to want
to use the wire strippers. Because the wire's so short,
it's hard to grab onto. So I'm using the
needle-nose pliers to make sure that I can
pull the insulation off with the wire strippers. And of course,
different wire strippers work in different ways. So we're going to loop
the wire on both ends. And the first one's going to go
through the remaining terminal on our single pole
double throw switch that is closest to that motor. And this is of course
our needle-nose pliers. Again, we're crimping that wire
tightly against that terminal just to make sure there's
a really solid connection. And we're going to take
the other side of the wire, and we're going to feed
it through the terminal on our motor. So we've got a little brass
tab there with a hole in it. We're going to slide that
wire through the brass tab. And once we have the wire
slipped through the brass tab, we're going to bend it back. And make sure that the brass is
in firm contact with that wire. So it's important to make sure
that those connections are good before we hot
glue them together. And we did the same
thing to the other side. I just ran the
wire, stripped it, and ran it through the
terminal on the motor there and then, also, the
terminal on our single pole double throw switch. So exact mirror
image of what we just did on the previous connection. And again, it's
important that you make sure that that
brass tab on the motor is folded over the
wire in such a way that it's got a good
solid connection. If it's just on the edge,
it may not stay connected. Now, what we're
going to do is we're going to take a look
at whether or not our motors are
connected correctly. And we're going to
use our power wire. And we're going to strip just
a little bit of the power wire off. This is from the negative
side of the battery. And the blue wire actually
comes from the positive side. So we're going to strip a
little bit of that wire off. And now what we can
do with that wire is we can test to see whether
the motors are actually working. So we're going to bend the
wire over and try and touch it to the motors there. You'll be able to hear
the motor spinning. Yeah. And that one worked there. And we'll see if it's
connected well here. Yep. It works well there, too. So now we're ready
to take our motors and hot glue all the
connections together so that the wires stay in place. And sometimes what I like
to do is bend the wire back up over the
connection just to make sure we're doubly sure that the
connection is solid before hot gluing it. Because once you get
the hot glue on there, it's hard to get it off. It's hard to fix it if
the connection isn't quite what it should be. Again, at this point,
now we're going to hot glue the
connections together and make sure that those
wires stay in place. We've already
validated that they are conducting electricity. We're also going to put some
hot glue on that paperclip that is holding the motors in place. So that will keep the
paperclip in place. And we're, again, hot gluing
over the terminal there. So there's a whole
lot of hot glue going on at this point
in time, but it's going to hold our
motors in place. And it's also going
to insulate our bot. You can use the two bottle
caps to hold the bot up so that the motors are
off the table surface. And that will allow you to
basically let the glue dry and keep the motors in
the right orientation.