- [Instructor] In biology, it's useful to have some shared language so we can communicate and
describe the world around us in ways that we can all
understand together. So here, we're going to
talk about populations, communities, and ecosystems. And as we will see, these
are all related ideas. So first of all, a population
is talking about the members of a specific species in an area. So for example, in this picture, we have a population of zebra. I have one zebra there, one zebra there, there might be some
others that we can't see. In fact, there are likely to be. So, these are each members
of a population of zebra. Now, we have other
populations in this picture. We have a population of buffalo. These three are members
of that population. We have a population of antelope. In fact, there is a bunch
of antelope in this picture. So, we have many members
of that population. We even see some animals
here in the background. I can't quite make out what they are, but that could be a different population. Let's say if those are elephants, they might be elephants
the way I see them, but that could be members of
a population of elephants. So if that is a population,
what is a community? Well, a community is all
of the living species that live in the same area. So, we have a community of animals that is made up of populations of buffalo, of zebra, and of antelope. And I wanna make clear
that the populations or when we're talking
about the communities, we're not necessarily just talking about large animals like this. We could be talking about
populations of mosquitoes. We could be talking about
populations of fish in this pond, if there are any fish. We could have a population of
a certain species of plant. And likewise, when we're
talking about communities, we're talking about collectively all of the living organisms together. Now, last but not least, what
would be an ecosystem then? Well, an ecosystem is all
of the living organisms plus all of the non-living things. So, the ecosystem that we see here would also include the water, it would also include the dirt, it would also include the air. And organisms like those
that we see right here are constantly interacting
with both the living and nonliving parts of their environment. These interactions are
how organisms get food, shelter, water, and warmth. These interactions are
how organisms survive and produce offspring. So, let's get a little bit more practice with this idea of populations,
communities, and ecosystems. And we will do that by
looking at this picture right over here. Pause this video and think about what are the populations here? Well, you might not know the name of all these different types of fish, but you can see that there's a population of this gold-colored fish right over here. There's also another population
of this blue-colored fish. We could keep looking
for other populations. It looks like there's a
population of this silver-colored or I guess long-ish silver
fish right over here. But once again, it's not just the fish. There's a population of coral, there's populations of microorganisms that we can't see here. The community would be all
of these living organisms that live close to each other. And we'll see, sometimes
they compete with each other, sometimes they eat each other, but sometimes they help each other, Or sometimes they don't matter
that much to each other. And we'll study that in a lot more detail. And then the ecosystem
includes all of the above plus the water, plus the
oxygen that is in the water, plus the sand at the bottom of the ocean. So, I'll leave you there. Hopefully, you now have a sense of what biologists are talking about when they talk about populations, communities, and ecosystems.