- [Narrator] What's the
weather usually like in the winter where you live? If you asked someone in Fairbanks, Alaska they might describe below freezing days and navigating through
huge drifts of snow. If you asked someone
else in Miami, Florida they might tell you that most days it was warm enough to go to the beach. How can two places on the same
continent be so different? Well, it all comes down
to regional climates. Climate is the long term pattern of weather in a particular region. You can think of it as
the average weather. A region's climate
depends on many factors, including its latitude, elevation, and surrounding geographic features, such as oceans or mountains. Let's look at how regional climates depend on latitude first. Latitude refers to imaginary lines that measure how far north or south a place is from the Equator, which equally divides the earth in half. The Equator is marked
at zero degrees latitude and the mid-latitudes
increase north or south until they reach the poles, which are marked at 90 degrees
north and 90 degrees south. The sun heats the planet unevenly. So places at higher latitudes, which are farther from the Equator, get less direct sunlight
and solar energy on average, resulting in lower average
annual temperatures. Places at lower latitudes,
being closer to the Equator, get more direct sunlight
and solar energy on average, which results in higher
average annual temperatures. This uneven heating creates a pattern of low and high air pressure bands from the Equator to the poles, affecting the amount of precipitation that the different latitudes receive. In bands where moist air is rising, mainly at zero degrees latitude and 60 degrees north and south, places experience a lot of rainfall, especially around the Equator. And bands where dry air is sinking, like at the poles and 30
degrees north and south, places experience very little rainfall. This creates dry conditions
at the cold poles and desert conditions in regions near the 30 degree latitude lines. Another important influence on regional climates is elevation or how high a place is above sea level. As air rises from lower
to higher elevations, it expands and cools. That's why regions at higher
elevations, like mountains, tend to have lower
average air temperatures than regions at lower elevations. Speaking of mountains and seas, the presence of geographic features can also influence a region's climate. Let's start by diving into
the impact of water first. Water heats and cools slowly while land heats and cools quickly. As a result, temperature
variations tend to be much smaller for cities near large bodies of water than for cities surrounded by land. For example, let's compare
the yearly temperature ranges for Vancouver, which is close
to Canada's Pacific Coast and Winnipeg, which is further East in the interior of the country. This line graph follows the
average temperature in Celsius for each city throughout
the months of the year. Vancouver starts at
the year mildly chilly. Temperatures rise a bit
for a warmer summer. And then slope gradually back down. Overall, the city sees
a pretty small range of temperatures throughout the year because the nearby ocean
influences the local climate as it gradually warms and cools. Compared to Vancouver, Winnipeg
has a much colder winter and a slightly hotter summer resulting in a more dramatic range of temperatures throughout the year. We call a climate like
Vancouver's a Marine Climate and a climate like Winnipeg's
a Continental Climate. Things get pretty interesting
when we combine the impact of water with land forms. One unique example is a rain shadow, which can be found in
places where mountains are relatively close to the ocean. For example, here's a satellite image of the Andes Mountain
Range in south America. The mountains run north
to south in this image and they're close to the Pacific Ocean. Notice how the area between the Pacific and the Andes is green and lush, but the area behind the
Andes is brown and dry. That's the rain shadow. What causes such a huge change? Well, when warm moisture rich air from the ocean meets the
mountain it's forced upward. As it rises the air expands
and cools causing the moisture to condense and fall as precipitation. Now, the air is much drier, which allows it to change
temperature much faster. As that dry air descends
down the other side of the mountain it compresses
and quickly becomes warmer, which leads to increased evaporation. Overall, this results in
a cool and wet climate on the ocean side of the mountain and a warm and dry climate
inside the rain shadow, which is what we saw
on the satellite view. As you can see, regional climates
can get pretty complicated when you consider all of the factors that can go into them. Depending on the exact region, one factor may be more responsible for the local climate than the others. Like how the presence of the
Andes Mountains contributes to the rain shadow climate beyond them. Let's look back at our
two very different cities from before so we can see
how the factors we discussed affect their winter climates. Fairbanks is at a very
high northern latitude which helps explain why it's
so freezing in the winter. Miami is much closer to the
Equator and near an ocean, so it experiences a very
warm and mild winter. Which of these cities would you
like to visit in the winter? Whether you prefer hanging
out on sunny shorelines or exploring frosty winter wonderlands, there's a regional climate somewhere in the world that you'd probably enjoy.