In this video, we're
going to show you how to wire our sound
module to our Bitsy bot and how to attach it. The first thing we're going to
do is disconnect our speaker. We need the speaker
wires to be longer and we want to feed them through
the small hole from the top so that we can put the
speaker on the bottom. So we've fed the wires through. They're about six inches long. And we're just soldering
them now to the speaker. So these are the new wires. And they're 22 gauge
solid core copper wires. We're taping them down so that
we get a good solder joint and so the wire
doesn't move around. And we're just
getting that solder to flow over the wire there. So now we're going
to take and we're going to put down a hot glue
blob about the size of a dime. And we'll use that hot glue blob
to hold the speaker in place. And the speaker's magnet
back causes the metal back causes the hot glue to dry fast. And then we're just going to
tape down our speaker wires so they don't move around on the
back side of the craft there. And now we're working
on our record button. And there's two metal pads
that we can solder wires to. And they're nice, big, fat
pads, so it's easy to solder to. And that'll allow us to move the
record switch to the Arduino. So now we're stripping
the wires here. These are the power wires. I'm sorry, these are the
wires for the speaker. So we're going to use
our shrink wrap tubing and we're feeding these
over the wires that are coming from the speaker. And we soldered those
wires just a little bit so it'll make it
easier to connect. And we're feeding the shrink
wrap tubing down over that so that once we make the
connection we can insulate it. So now we're just a holding
the two wires together with our alligator clip
and we're soldering them with our soldering iron. And once again, these
are the speaker wires. So we're going to connect the
other side the same way, just using the soldering iron. And once we have the
two wires connected, we'll slide the shrink wrap
tubing up over the solder joint and that will help
to protect the wires and prevent them from
shorting against one another. And so once we have both
the shrink wrap pieces up, we'll use our shrink wrap
gun to shrink the shrink wrap and seal the wires,
protect them. So now we're going to remove
the power wire connector and strip the power wires. And we are going to
connect the stranded, it's about a 32 gauge wire, to
our 22 gauge solid core copper wire, which is hookup wire. And we're doing that
because it's easier to connect to our five volt
power distribution board that we installed
in an earlier video. You can see that board
underneath our sound module there. So we're just twisting the wire
around our solid core copper and we're running our
solderer around it. We're sliding the heat
shrink tubing over the new joints in the
wires to prevent them from shorting
against one another. Now we're just going to
heat shrink those wires up using our heat shrink gun. And again, that'll provide
us a insulated connection. All right, so we're going
to pop off the Play button here-- this is the
Play button-- so that we can get to the
traces below the Play button. We're going to scrape off
some of the lacquer leading into the button connection. And the reason for that is
that the button connection wires are too
small to solder to. But the traces are big enough
that we can solder to those. So we're going to use
our 22 gauge copper wire and we're going to just solder
to both sides of the switch trace. And so that's the first side. And then we'll also
solder to the second side. So it's really important that
the wires are not moved around, because the joints that we're
creating with the solder are very small
and so there's not a lot holding the
wires in place. So we'll go back and put some
hot glue over those wires to make sure they stay in place. But first we're going
to test everything to make sure that it works. So we'll hold our two
record wires together to see if we can get
to record and make a sound by snapping our fingers. [SNAPPING] And now we're going to
press the Play button and cross our fingers
and hope that it works. [SNAPPING] Yeah, it did. So that's great. So now we're going to put the
hot glue over those two wires and that will help to
maintain the wire's position and keep them from moving
around and breaking free and destroying
the joint there. It's about a dime sized blob of
hot glue, about 1/8 of an inch thick. And we want to make
sure we let it dry before we connect anything else. OK, so now we've
place the sound card next to our five volt
power distribution strip. And we're drilling a hole so
that we can allow our record button to stick
through the lexan, and that'll allow us to manually
trigger the record button so that we can do testing
if for some reason it's not being triggered
by the Arduino. So we're just
drilling this hole out with a quarter inch drill bit. And we're going to clean up
the rough edges with our break off blade knife. So now we're putting down
our about a quarter size blob of hot glue, about
1/8 of an inch thick. And that will give us a place
to connect our sound module to. We want to make sure we
let that blob of hot glue cool for about 30 seconds
before we connect it. And that will help to keep
the glue from squishing out everywhere when we push
our sound card down. Now we're going to
take the hot glue and again put about
a dime sized piece down so that we can push our
record button through and hold it in place. It's important that
that hot glue does not touch the actual button
itself, otherwise it may not function properly. So time for a final test. [SNAPPING] Connecting our play wires. [SNAPPING] Great. It looks like it's
going to work. So we're going to go ahead
and connect our Arduino now to the layout. And we'll put that
over the machine screws and then once we get the
Arduino in the right location, we'll push it down. And we're just
tightening the nut there with our needle nose pliers. OK, so now we're connecting our
ground wire to the five volt distribution board that we
made from our breadboard the other day. And we're going to connect
the five volt positive wire to the positive five volts
on the five volt distribution board as well. And that's going to give
us power to our sound card. And in the upcoming
videos, we'll show you how to wire the
sound card to the Arduino to make it play.