- [Instructor] What we're
going to do in this video is discuss affirmative action and it can be a sensitive topic, so I encourage folks to
engage on the message boards but to do so respectfully. So, the first question is
what is affirmative action? So, generally speaking you could view it as efforts to improve opportunities for underrepresented groups and oftentimes it will be
for underrepresented racial or ethnic groups or for women. To help us think through
the types of efforts that might be classified or that might be associated
with affirmative action we can set up a little
bit of a spectrum here. At one end of the spectrum you could have outright quotas. These could be situations where say a university
admissions department says we're going to say 10% of our class is gonna be from this
group or from that group. In between you could have race
or gender-aware admissions where it is a factor in admissions. Race/gender is a factor. And at this end of the spectrum there's outreach to groups to make sure that people
who could be qualified who are from underrepresented
groups are applying, so this would be outreach. Now, in popular language today, affirmative action
tends to refer to things more on this end of the spectrum and the phrase affirmative action first comes into popular usage during Lyndon B. Johnson's presidency. Now, as you can imagine this is a very sensitive topic because on one hand folks could say yes, it would be nice to give opportunity for folks who historically
have not had opportunity or folks who are
historically underrepresented but other people might say well, shouldn't we be
a race blind society? If you are factoring race for one group, well, doesn't that hurt another group and couldn't it cause
reverse discrimination? And to appreciate the legal history here, we can go back to 1978 where we have the case
Regents of the University of California v. Bakke in the
United States Supreme Court and this is a situation where Bakke is a former
solider and engineer who also happens to be white who wants to go to medical school. He gets rejected by the
University of California at Davis and he claims that there was reverse
discrimination at play because they had a quota system. 16 out of the 100 seats
at the medical school were reserved for
underrepresented minorities and the Supreme Court actually had trouble deciding on this case. It was a very divided opinion and eventually Justice Powell's opinion became the opinion that
people paid attention to. And it was a little bit mixed. It said that outright
quotas are unconstitutional and that Bakke should be allowed admission and he was able to go to University of California,
Davis Medical School but Justice Powell tried
to thread the needle by saying even though quotas might be unconstitutional it is okay to consider race
as a factor in admissions especially if it's being used
for the educational benefit of diversity of the community. In 1996 the voters of California actually voted directly on this issuer and they passed the California
Civil Rights Initiative more commonly know as Proposition 209 and this proposition made it illegal to consider race, sex or
ethnicity when it came to government jobs or admissions in state schools. It has been challenged by
proponents of affirmative action many time but all of those challenges have been unsuccessful to date. These issues surface
again in the Supreme Court in 2003 when we get to the
Grutter versus Bollinger case. This case has some
parallels to the Bakke case. In this case Grutter is a white applicant to the University of Michigan Law School who claims that she was denied admission because the Law School was
giving racial preference which was causing essentially
reverse discrimination. The Supreme Court rules against Grutter but it's really interesting
to read the majority opinion written by Sandra Day O'Connor and the dissenting opinion
from Clarence Thomas because it gives us some texture into the nuances of these decisions. Here is an excerpt from Sandra Day O'Connor's
majority opinion. We last addressed the use of race in public higher education
over 25 years ago. In the landmark Bakke case, we reviewed a racial set-aside program that reserves 16 out of 100 seats in a medical school class for members of certain minority groups. Since this Court's
splinter decision in Bakke, Justice Powell's opinion announcing the judgment of the court has served as the touchstone
for constitutional analysis of race-conscious admissions policies. And then she goes on to list the situations that Justice Powell said were not okay to justify race as a factor in admissions. Justice Powell rejected an interest in reducing the historic deficit of traditionally disfavored minorities in medical schools and in the medical profession as an unlawful interest
in racial balancing. So, according to Justice
Powell in the Bakke case, you can't justify
race-conscious admissions to try to fix historic deficits. Sandra Day O'Connor goes on to write Justice Powell in the Bakke case rejected an interest in
remedying societal discrimination because such measures would risk placing unnecessary burdens on
innocent third parties who bare no responsibility for whatever harm the beneficiaries of the special admissions program are thought to have suffered. So, you also can't have
race-conscious admissions if the goal is to remedy
current societal discrimination because if you're benefiting someone, you're also putting the burden on people who might have nothing to do with that societal discrimination. And then she goes on to write that in the Bakke case Justice Powell approved the university's
use and here we're talking about the University of California's use of race to further only one interest, the attainment of a diverse student body. And now in this part of the excerpt she shifts to talking
about the case at hand in Grutter versus Bollinger where we're talking about admissions to the University of Michigan Law School. As part of its goal of assembling a class that is both exceptionally
academically qualified and broadly diverse, the Law School seeks to enroll a critical mass of minority students. The Law School's concept of critical mass is defined by reference to
the educational benefits that diversity is designed to produce. These benefits are substantial. As the district court emphasized the Law School's
admissions policy promotes cross-racial understanding, helps to break down racial stereotypes and enables students to better understand persons of different races. We, the majority in the Supreme Court, agree that in the context of
its individualized inquiry into the possible diversity contributions of all applicants, the Law School's race-conscious
admissions program does not unduly harm
non-minority applicants. In summary, the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment does not prohibit the Law
School's narrowly tailored use of race in admissions decisions to further a compelling interest in obtaining the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body. So, in this situation the majority opinion that's penned by Justice O'Connor is clarifying Powell's statement in Bakke saying that diversity is a
legitimate educational benefit that universities can optimize around as long as race is one of many factors in the admissions process. Now, on the other hand, you have the dissenting opinion from Justice Clarence Thomas. Here is an excerpt he wrote. I believe blacks can
achieve in every avenue of American life without the meddling of university administrators. Because I wish to see all students succeed whatever their color, I share in some respect the sympathies of those who sponsor the
type of discrimination advanced by the University
of Michigan Law School. The Constitution does
not, however, tolerate institutional devotion to the status quo in admissions policies when such devotion ripens
into racial discrimination. So, he's calling the University
of Michigan Law School's admissions policies
outright discrimination. He's saying that look, even though it might be the status quo, it's essentially what
a lot of universities have been doing since Bakke. It's not okay because it has ripened into racial discrimination. The majority, he's
talking about the majority of the Supreme Court upholds the Law School's racial discrimination not by interpreting the
people's Constitution, so the US Constitution but by responding to a faddish slogan of the cognoscenti. So, here he's making reference
to this idea of diversity which he's calling a faddish
slogan of the cognoscenti. Cognoscenti would be people who are in the know, or people who think they're in the know. Nevertheless, I concur in part in the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court's holding that racial discrimination in
higher education admissions will be illegal in 25 years. And here he's making reference that in Sandra Day O'Connor's opinion she did say that in 25 years it might not be okay to have
race-conscious admissions. I respectfully dissent from the remainder of the Court's opinion and the judgment, however, because I believe that the
Law School's current use of race violates the
Equal Protection Clause and that the Constitution
means the same thing today as it will in 300 months. So, here he's saying look, if the majority thinks
that it's right now okay to have race-conscious admissions but it's not okay in 25 years, well, what's gonna change
about the Constitution? If it's going to be
unconstitutional in 25 years, it should be unconstitutional today. Finally, he goes on to say the Constitution abhors
classifications based on race not only because those classifications can harm favored races or are based on illegitimate motives but also because every time
the government places citizens on racial registers and makes race relevant to
the provision of burdens or benefits, it demeans us all. I encourage you to think about it. Are you more on the side of Justice Powell or Sandra Day O'Connor where race is a legitimate
factor in admissions especially if it's in service to diversity which is considered a benefit for an educational community or you more on the side of Justice Thomas and Proposition 209 in California saying that look, we need
to be racially blind. The 14th Amendment, the
Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment says that we should be a racially blind country and that every time we
try to involve race, it might do more harm than good. You decide.