Voiceover: Let's see how to approach an
intramolecular aldol condensation. So over here on the left, we have a two
five hexanedione. And if we add sodium hydroxide and we heat
things up. We would form this compound here on the
right. So we would actually form a ring. Let's go ahead and number our, our uh,dion
over here. It's symmetrical so we can start on either
side. So I can say this is Carbon one, Carbon
two, three, four, five and six. So we have two five hexanedione here, and
if we add Sodium hydroxide, we're going to
deprotonate at the alpha Carbon. So I need to find my alpha carbons here. So that's the carbon next to the carbonyl also carbon one, could be an alpha
carbon. Carbon three, could be an alpha carbon,
and then, over here, right, these would also
be alpha carbons to this carbonyl, but
since it's symmetrical, we don't need to worry
about those. So we just need to focus in on the
possible alpha carbons at one and three. Let's let's first do this thinking about
deprotonating at alpha carbon one here, an alpha carbon which is
carbon one. So I put put my alpha proton on here and I
think about hydroxide taking this alpha proton right, leaving these electrons behind on this
carbon. And so here I have I have the dione drawn
in a different conformation. And let's go ahead and number this one. So this will be carbon one, two, three,
four, five and six. This is just gonna help us when we're
thinking about forming our product. And so if we're deprotonating at carbon
one, all right, so these electrons in here would end up on carbon
one to form a carbanize. So I'm showing those electrons in magenta
on carbon ones, so that's a negative 1 formal charge on
this carbon. And for this mechanism, I'm gonna show the
carbanion functioning as a nucleophile, so it's going to attack
this carbonyl over here. We know this carbonyl has a partial
negative oxygen, a partial positive carbon, so this carbon
right here is electrophilic. So our nucleophile's going to attack our
electrophile, right? So these electrons in here, are going to attack here, pushing these electrons off
onto our oxygen. So let's go ahead and show the results of
that. We would actually form our ring here, so I
am gonna draw our five membered ring. We would have our carbonyl right here, and we would form an alkoxide and then we
could we could think about protonating to form
our aldols, so I go ahead and draw the aldol here. And then we would have a methyl group
right here, so let's, let's follow some of those some of
those electrons, right. So the electrons in magenta moved in here
to form our bonds. And then let's number our carbons too. So this would be carbon one, carbon two,
right, three, four, five and six in terms of the numbering
system that we used over here on the left. So it just helps us to, to follow those
carbons along here. And so this would be our aldol, and then we know, that this is our alpha carbon
right here, so we could deprotonate that, so I'm
gonna go ahead and draw an alpha proton right
here. And so we could think about hydroxide
coming along, right, functioning as a base, right, and
taking that proton. So the hydroxide takes this proton. These electrons move in here to form your
double bond, and you have hydroxide as your
leafing group. So when we draw the product, right, we
have our ring. All right, we have our carbonyl right
here, we would have a double bond now and then we would have our methyl group like that, and so that's obviously our
product. Let's follow those electrons, right, we
already had a carbon carbon bond formed in here, but if we take
the proton right these electrons in blue can
move in here to form our double bond, and then we have
our product. And so, this would be the the major
product for this reaction, so, so that's that's showing deprotonation at the alpha
carbon which we labeled one right here. Let's let's show what would happen in we de-proteinated the alpha carbon that we
numbered three, so we'll do that in the next area
we have down here, all right. So the same confirmation we're starting
with before, right. So one, two, three, four, five, six. If we deprotonate at carbon three this
time, then that's where we'd form our carb and
ions. Let me go ahead and show the one pair of
electrons on this carbon three right here. That gives that carbon a negative 1 a
formal charge. And so we can think about this being our nuclei file and attacking right here at
this carbon. So that would push these electrons in here
off to the oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw the results of
that. This time we would actually form a three
membered ring. So, let's go ahead and draw everything in and then let's, let's follow everything
around here. So, we have a methyl group right here and
then we would have an o. And that'd be our alc oxide, which we
could protonate to form our aldol, as our
intermediate here. So let's once again, number these carbons,
even though this isn't how you would actually
number it. It just helps us to follow everything
along here, so let me go ahead and number in red. And so one, two, three, four, five and this is where carbon six, again, using
these numbering system over here on the left
just, to make it a little bit easier for us. So the electrons in magenta, right, are
the ones that form this bond between carbon three and
carbon five, like that. And once again, we know that carbon three
is an alpha carbon, so there's an alpha
proton on here. And so we could think about hydroxide coming along and functioning as a base,
right? So hydroxide is going to take this proton, leave these electrons behind and then we
have hydroxide as a leaving group, and so another
possible product would be this three membered ring
right here. And then we would have a methyl group, and
then we would also have our key tone over here
like that. And so, we had already formed a carbon,
carbon bond with electrons and magenta. And then if we take this proton, right,
these electrons in blue, right, can move in here to form our
double bonds. And so, it turns out that on this small ring here, all right it's, it's possible
to form this. But it's not isolated in, in large yield
in this reaction because there is too much angle stream for
this three membered ring. And so this isn't really isolated as your
product. Your product is this one, there is less angle strain to form this five membered
ring. But it is possible to get a three membered
ring in this. So but the five membered ring is, is gonna
be your major product here. So lets do one more intramolecular aldol
condensation. All right, so very similar to the last one
actually. So it looks a little bit more complicated. But we can analyze it the same way. So, if we're looking for our alpha
carbons, right, we know those are the ones
next to our carbonyls. Let's go ahead and number this compound. This'll be carbon one, two, three, four,
five and six. And so, for our alpha carbons, right, we
know carbon one would be an alpha carbon. And we know carbon three would be an alpha
carbon. Carbon four and then carbon six, right? So those are our possibilities. So carbons three and four, if you think
about these being alpha carbons. These will give us a ring with a little
bit too much angle strain. So we can kind of rule those out. And so now, now its down to thinking about
carbon one or carbon six. And for that we need to look at the base. Right? So we're using potassium hydroxide here. So we're using a non sterically hindered
base, and it isn't very strong, and so it's
gonna favor the formation of the thermodynamic
enolate, which is the more stable one because it's more
substituted. So we talked about this in an earlier
video. And so if you look at an alpha, if you look at deprotonation at, at alpha carbon
which I had labeled one here, that would give you the kinetic
enolate, which is one of the fastest, but it's not the
most stable. If you deprotonate at the alpha carbon at six, that would give you the thermodynamic
enolate. So it's more substituted than the kinetic
enolate, so it's more stable. So if you think about the fact that on
this alpha carbon right, there are two alpha
protons right here. And if your base takes one of these alpha
protons, right. Then these electrons would move into here,
push these electrons off onto your oxygen. So let's do the, the same, the same thing down here where we have a different
confirmations. So very similar to how we did the last
one. So, one of these acidic protons right here
on our alpha carbon, I'll go ahead and draw it in
right here. So we have our hydroxide come along and
function as a base, right? So hydroxide and ion. All right so negative 1 charge is gonna
take this proton, right, leaving these electrons in here pushing
these electrons off onto the oxygens. I'm gonna draw the oxy anion this time,
right? So this is going to be in equilibrium, so
let's go ahead and show first off I'll show what we would get, and then we will follow some electrons around,
right. So I have my carbonyl here and then we're
gonna form our oxyanion, so I'm gonna go ahead and draw negative
one formal charge on this oxygen. There's now a double bond right here, and
then we'll go ahead and draw on the rest of our
carbons. So this is the, this is the thermodynamic
enolates, right? So if we look at this double bond, this is
going be the most stable enolate that forms, because of
the substitution of this double bond here. So, following those electrons, lets go
ahead and make those electrons in here blue. So these electrons in here. All right we move in here, like that, and
then you can think about your electrons, your pi electrons and here moving off onto your oxygen to form your oxy anion like
that. And so once again, this is the
thermodynamic enolates, because this reaction is under thermodynamic control
because of our choice of base. Next we're gonna show our oxyanion
functioning as a nucleophile. So once again, our carbon yield is
polarized, right? Partial negative, partial positive. All right, so we could think about these electrons, right, in red, moving
into here. And then we could think about these
electrons again, these are, are pi electrons in
here. Attacking at our carbonyl, right, pushing
these electrons off onto our oxygen. Lets go ahead and draw right, the results
of our nucl, nuclei philsacrate here, right, so we would form our ring, it
be five membered rings. So lets go ahead and draw our five
membered ring here. We would form carbonyl, right? And then, let's see at this carbon, we
would have this group coming off here. All right, and then we'll form an alkoxide
which you could protonate to form our aldol, and then we have a
methyl group right here. So, let's, let's follow those electrons,
so a lot happened here. So if the oxy anion acts as your nucleophile, all right, so these
electrons in here, which I'm saying are your pi
electrons, right, are gonna form this bond right
here. So, very similar to how we did it in the
previous video. All right, except we're using an oxion on
this time as a nucleophile, these electrons in here move
in to reform your carbonyl. All right, and we're thinking about
carbons, all right, so this carbon right here, is this
carbon. And, let's identify some other carbons. So, this carbon right here is this carbon. And then this carbon is this carbon. Just so it's not, it's getting a little
bit confusing in terms of what we have. So, if we go back to our alpha carbon
here, all right. So we, there's an acidic proton on that
alpha carbon. So, I can go ahead and draw that in. All right, and then our base could come
along, so then hydroxide could come along and take
that acidic proton. So let's go ahead and show that. So negative 1 formal charge, takes this
proton, right, these electrons move in here, and you lose
hydroxide. And then, you have your products, so let's
go ahead and draw in our products. So, we have a five membered ring, right? We have a key tone here, we have a double
bond here, and then we retain the stereochemistry of this group
that's coming off, and then we have a methyl group. So, we'd already formed a carbon, carbon
bond in here, right? And then let's let's go ahead and make
these electrons in here let's make them, let's make them
magenta, all right? So these electrons in here are gonna move
in to form your pi bonds to give you your
product. So, the product is called, cis jasmone,
it's found in jasmine flowers and so it gives it its
scent. So this is a, a pretty cool reaction in intramolecular outlaw
condensation which gives you a product that's used in the perfume
industry in a pretty good yield.