Let's start with an
introduction to alkanes. Alkanes all have the general
molecular formula of CnH2n plus 2, where n is
the number of carbons that are in your molecule. For example, if you have
one carbon in your molecule you plug one into your formula
there, and you would get C1, and you would get 1 times 2
plus 2, which is of course 4, so CH4, which is methane. And we've seen the dot structure
for methane many times, right. So carbon with four hydrogens
around it like that. So methane is the
simplest alkane. What about two carbons? Well, plug it into your formula. That would be C2. And that'd be 2 times 2, which
is 4, plus 2, which is 6. So C2H6 is the molecular
formula for a two carbon alkane which we call a ethane. So this would be
the dot structure for ethane, carbon bonded
to another carbon with six hydrogens around it like that. So there are millions upon
millions of organic compounds, and you have to have some sort
of logical way to name them. So one carbon is methane,
two carbons is ethane, and these names were
determined by what's called the IUPAC
nomenclature system. IUPAC stands for International
Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, which was
a bunch of chemists getting together
and saying we're going to name all these
molecules in a very systematic way. So for the rest of
this course we're going to focus on
IUPAC nomenclature for naming organic molecules. And I've kind of summarized
IUPAC nomenclature up in this little table here. If you have one carbon
your parent name is meth. And if you're working with an
alkane your ending is an ane. So therefore a one carbon
alkane is called methane as we have already seen. A two carbon alkane,
the root is eth, and so that would be ethane. And so, of course,
your ending would change depending on what
functional group you're working with, but here we're
just working with alkanes. Three carbons, the root is prop. So if I were to draw a three
carbon alkane like that, that would be the dot
structure for propane. Four carbons is but. So if I were to draw a four
carbon alkane like that, that would be butane. And of course five
carbons would be pentane. So I could go ahead
and draw pentane. And we could keep going here,
but I think you get the idea. These are all straight
chain alkanes, meaning it's just
one line of carbons, one carbon right
after the other. Six carbons would be hex or
hexane, seven carbons hept or heptane, eight octane,
nine nonane, ten is decane, and we can see the
rest of them here. Undec for 11 carbons, dodec,
tridec, tetradec, pentadec, and eicos for 20. So this holds true
not only for alkanes, but for other functional groups. So it's important to memorize
all of these parent names here. So, so far we've talked
about straight chain alkanes. What about if you get a
branched chain alkane like this? So you can see it's no
longer just one carbon one after another
in a straight chain. You can see there's
something coming off of that carbon chain. So first let's find the
longest carbon chain. So this is a skill
you have to develop when you're doing
IUPAC nomenclature. So if I start over here, I
find the longest carbon chain, and if I go like this you
can see the carbon chain that I'm going for like that. How many carbons are
there in that chain? Well, there was one
right here, and then two, and then three, and
then four, and then five. So there are five
carbons in this chain. And, when we go back up here to
our IUPAC nomenclature table, we see that five
carbons will have pent, and it will be pentane. So the parent name will be
pentane for this example. So for this molecule you're
going to name this pentane. And what is coming off of
my straight chain alkane? Right, I have something
coming off of it right here. I have a one carbon
CH3 group branching off of my pentane molecule. This is called a substituent. So a substituent is
something coming off of your parent chain. Right? It's a group or groups that is
connected to your parent chain. So how are we going to
name this substituent? Well, it's one
carbon, and this is what's called an alkyl group. And notice it's not an
alkane, it's an alkyl. So the ending for an alkyl
group will be Y-L. But we're still going
to use our parent name to name alkyl groups. So if there's one carbon, I go
back up here to my IUPAC table here and I say, well one carbon
in organic chemistry the parent name of meth, and this
is an alkyl group which has a Y-L ending, so
I have meth plus Y-L, so this is called a
methyl group, which we've said several times
already in these videos. So we have a methyl group
attached to my straight chain, to my parents chain here,
which is called pentane. So there's a methyl group
coming off of pentane in the second position. We will get into details
about IUPAC nomenclature in the next video. So for right now let's just be
able to identify substituents coming off of our parent chain. And the first step when you're
doing IUPAC nomenclature is always to find the longest
carbon chain possible. So for this molecule it
is a five carbon chain. Let's look at a more
challenging example. Here are three dot structures
for the exact same molecule, and let's see if we
can find some carbon chains for this molecule here. So let's find the longest
carbon chain we possibly can. So I'm going to start
with the top left one, and I'm going to look at this
portion of the molecule here, and I'm going to try to find
my longest carbon chain. So that might be my
first guess here. So how many carbons
in that chain? Well this would be one,
two, three, four, five, six, and seven. So if you were to name
this as a parent chain, this would be heptane since
I have seven carbons on it like that. What about these substituents
coming off of heptane? Well I have a one
carbon alkyl group coming off of the
second position. So one carbon we've seen, that
would be called a methyl group. I have a two carbon substituent
coming off of the third carbon. So let's go back up here
and refresh our memory. What would be the
parent name for two carbons for organic chemistry? So two carbons would
be eth, and since this is an alkyl group it would
be called a ethyl group. So we have an ethyl group
coming off of carbon three. So this is a methyl
group right here, and then this is an ethyl group. So we have a methyl group
coming off of carbon two, and we have an ethyl group
coming off of carbon three, and coming off of
carbon four is yet another ethyl group like that. Let's say we chose
a different way to find our longest
carbon chain. Let's say we started down here. So let's say we
said, oh that looks like that might be the
longest carbon chain to me at first glance. So let's see what we have. Let's see how many
carbons we have if we said this is our
longest carbon chain. So let's number them. Let's call this carbon one. Let's call this carbon two,
three, four, five, six, and seven. So once again this
would be called heptane. What sort of substituents do we
have coming off this molecule? We have a methyl group
coming off of carbon two. We have an ethyl group
coming off of carbon three. And we have another ethyl group
coming off of carbon four. So that's the exact
same situation we had for the
first example here. So these are the same thing. So it doesn't really matter
which one of those you chose, you'd be naming it
the exact same name. Let's compare those two to
the molecule to the example down here. Again it's the same
molecule, but let's say you chose a different path. Let's say you chose down here. So you said, oh,
this looks like it's the longest carbon chain to me. So you go like this,
and you say, all right, that's my longest carbon chain. How many carbons are in that? Well, this would be one,
two, three, four, five, six, and seven. So what sort of substituents
do we have in this molecule? Well coming off
of carbon four we can see there is an ethyl group. Coming off of
carbon three we can see this looks kind
of complicated. It's not really
a straight chain. This is much more
complex substituent, which we'll get to
naming in a future video. So for this molecule we have
a total of two substituents. For the top molecule we have an
example of three substituents. So the question is
which one of these will be the correct way to
name my molecule according to IUPAC nomenclature? So I have two chains
of equal length. Both of these chains
are seven carbons. So how do I break that tie? IUPAC rules state you
choose the parent chain with the greatest
number of subtituents. So the top one has
three subtituents, the bottom example
has two substituents. So if you were to name this
molecule using IUPAC packed nomenclature you would choose
the top way of naming it, which again we
will get to in more detail in the next
few videos here. So let's look at
cyclo alkanes now. So we've just done
straight chain alkanes. We looked at branched
chain alkanes. Let's look at cyclo alkanes. So this is a pretty
funny dot structure here. Let's see how many carbons
are in this triangle. Well, of course, there's
one, two, and three carbons. So if I were to draw what
this molecule looks like, if I were to draw all
the atoms involved there'd be three
carbons like that. And to complete the octet
around carbon there'd have to be two hydrogens
on each carbon like that. So that's a cyclo alkane. So it's carbon
forming rings now. So the molecular formula
for this molecule there'd be three carbons and
a total of six hydrogens, and we can see that the
pattern for a cyclo alkane would therefore have to be,
if you have n carbons you must have 2n hydrogens
for a cyclo alkane. This cyclo alkane
has three carbons so we go back up here to
our IUPAC nomenclature table and we say that three carbons
should be prop, right? And since it's an
alkane it'd be propane, but it's a cyclo alkane,
so we would actually call this cyclopropane. So this molecule is called
cyclopropane, like that. The next molecule
looks like a square. How many carbons are in it? There are four, so
that would be butane. But since this is
a cyclic molecule it would be called cyclobutane. And let's do two more examples. So the next one's a pentagon. So that's five carbons. So it would be pentane. So it'd be cyclopentane. And probably the most
important cyclo alkane would of course be six
carbons, and six carbons would be cyclohexane. So this guy down here would
be named as cyclohexane. So that's an introduction to
alkanes and cyclo alkanes. The next few videos will
get into much more detail about nomenclature.