Now that you have a sense of our
character design process, in the next few videos we're gonna dive deeper into how
we bring characters to life via audio-animatronics. The phrase "animatronic figures" was invented by Walt Disney in the early 60s, by combining the
words animation and electronics. Most robots, especially industrial robots, are designed to do a task, like welding a car or assembling electronic circuit board.
Animatronic figures are designed to create expressive performances. Animatronic characters consists of four 
 main components. Armatures, that play the
role of the skeleton and a real character and define how a character
will move. Actuators, that play the role of the muscles, that create motion.
Sensors, that play the role of nerves and provide the character with information
about the physical world around them. And a control unit, that plays the role of
the character's brain. This video will focus on armatures - the skeleton of the character. An armature is typically an assembly consisting of segments
connected together at joints, allowing the character to move in different ways. Each individual motion that the armature is capable of is known as a degree of freedom, also known as a function. For instance, my armature, that is my skeleton,
lets me bend my elbow. So that's a function. It also lets me twist my wrists, so
that's another function. Wrist in out, wrist forward back, wrist twist, those are
three of our standard functions. So Jake has five functions, he's got the ability to nod his head, he has the ability to tilt his head, he has the ability to turn
his head, and then he's got the ability to drive backward and forward and the
ability to turn as he drives. Some more complicated mechanisms are typically found where you need several motions within one small joint or one space. So a
wrist has three degrees of freedom. Mouth corners, we want to move up down,
In out. The expressive Chaman face was a whole challenge and a whole system
within itself. To get it to move through a full range of expression from smiling
to grimacing - a very wide range of expression. So basically we have two
motors that work together. In order to move a single point up down, in out. We actually had to invent a new function that had never been used before on any
animate animated figure. I think we called it the nose scrunch, because Davey
Jones has to wrinkle up his nose when he's talking because the squid skin is
very rubbery, and it has to pull up. And he, for him to look angry he has to go "ERRR."
And so we have a function actually pulls up on his cheeks, and his nose, and makes
it like he's doing this. You have to try to optimize for getting the most out of the least amount of functionality. The fingers going to move, Is the finger
gonna do this? Is the hand gonna do this? Is the hand gonna do that? Every one of
those things has a function, and that requires an actuator, which requires
wires, which requires sensors, which requires design, and work, and a space to
package all of those things. So, you have to design your character very carefully
with the things that you really need to tell your story and eliminate the things
that you don't need to tell your story. So you don't want to oversimplify, and
then it starts to look robotic and stiff. Right? But you want to have it just as
much as it needs to be, to accomplish the creative goal and relate back to the
overall story. And then the animation that we do with the audio animatronics
It's just icing on the cake. You should be able to tell what the character is
thinking and feeling if the figure was completley static. Before we build
anything out of plastic or metal, we always, always, always start with one or
more proof-of-concept prototypes. Prototypes are a way to demonstrate how
a character will perform. Using simple materials that let us iterate rapidly
and work fast. And you start with building a toy. Prototypes do not have to
be fancy. Even at Imagineering R&amp;D, we will often
build prototypes out of cardboard, popsicle sticks. So you have popsicle
sticks with little pushpins as your linkages, and you can just swing and move
them to see how your final motion will look like. Paper clips. binder clips. Legos,
in order to kind of build up that armature or to see how things can
package together. Whatever we have lying around,. What's important is to get the
idea out of your head and onto the table as quickly as possible, so that you can
talk about it, iterate,
change, and improve. One of the things we were kind of asking ourself with tiny
life is how much could we do with with just a little. We built a super simple
mock-up, which is this little guy right here. And he's truly a collection of
parts from a hardware store, wooden dowels, the roller ball heads that we cut
off liquid deodorant bottles, and we kind of slapped all this together with some
scrap fur that we have found to make this character. And you know, again, not a
huge amount of functions, but we got a lot of information out of him. We would
do studies where we had a puppeteer who would puppet him. We would film all of it
and then we would go back and we would look at what pieces of the motion did we
really think bring this character to life. And what that helped us do is
figure out how do we design the final animatronic now that we've seen a bunch
of different motion studies, we can figure out what features are important,
what features do we maybe not really need. And from there we can make great
informed decisions on how to build the final figure. It's important to remember
that when coming up with the prototype, rapid iteration, trying versions over and
over, is key. Nothing ever works the first time, believe me. In the next exercise, you'll have a chance to prototype a simple armature for a
character of your own design. Have fun!