- [Voiceover] Alright, in
this video, we're talking about the document-based question, or DBQ, section on the AP US History exam. Now, this is one of two
main essays that are on the exam. One is based on documents
that are provided to you and the other is based
on your own knowledge of the subject. So you'll get 55 minutes
to do this portion of the exam and it's
generally recommended that you spend about 15 of
those minutes planning your answer and about 40 of those minutes actually writing your answer. Now your mileage might
differ, you might find that you're someone who wants
to spend a little bit more time planning or your
somebody who can plan really fast and write well. In any event, you want to
go in with a plan about how much time you're going to spend on each part so that you
don't get surprised at the end of the period that
you still have a couple paragraphs left to write
but you're out of time. So for the DBQ section,
you're going to get a question that asks you
to analyze changes or continuities over time,
something that really gets at the heart of how things
in history change over time. So unlike the short answer
questions, which are very specific about one period
in time, this is asking you to take a broader look at
US history and write an essay about one of its major themes. Let's take a look at this question. Analyze major changes and
continuities in the social and economic experiences
of African Americans who migrated from the South
to urban areas in the North in the period 1910 to 1930. Well that gives us a lot
of information about the kinds of things we should concentrate on. First, we're looking at
social history and economic history, we're looking
at African Americans, and we're looking at this migration pattern. This is the period of the
Great Migration, as they would say, when many African
Americans who lived in the South moved to the
North for new factory jobs in this time period
which certainly included World War I. And you can see from the
time frame that we're talking about a fairly early
20th century time period ending in 1930, so you don't
want to be talking about the experiences of African
Americans in the Great Depression or in World War
II, or in the Civil Rights Movement because that's much later. Now you might be able to
end on a note that shows your knowledge of what's
to come, but really for the meat of this essay, you
want to stick to the time period in question. To answer this, we're
going to want to write an essay and, at the very
least, I would go for your standard five paragraph
essay where you have an introductory statement,
introduction, which includes a strong thesis statement
and we'll get to how to write one of those soon. And then, three paragraphs
of body text, each that is trying to prove a point
brought up in its topic sentence, and a conclusion,
which wraps up what you've said and ties it up with a bow. Now to do this, you're going to have to consider and analyze about seven to nine primary documents, which
are provided for you by the exam. You should include all,
or maybe all but one, of those primary documents in your answer. Now you don't have to
go into detail about all of them, but you should
include analysis of some of the arguments, some of
the biases, and some of the larger ideas behind
some of those documents. You should also be prepared to give some outside information that
shows that you really know the material and can give context to it. So that's what these questions are about and how you should go
about answering them. In the next video, we'll
start looking at primary documents and getting ready
to make a thesis statement.