- [Instructor] Okay, so we're gonna talk about the CD drive itself or the DVD drive itself,
which is right here. I've returned the power board
back to its normal location just so you can see how
the wires are routed and I went ahead and
removed the mounting screws for this drive, just to reduce
the amount of time it takes to get it out so we can explain it. So you can see the power for the motors comes through these two wires here. This chip controls the electrical impulses through these wires and tells the motors to drive the tray out, spin the spindle or move the laser back and forth, so there's three functions there and that requires three motors so we should see three motors on the back. Let's see if we can remove these components here or these wires. And this wire here is the ribbon cable that takes signals from the laser and brings it back to this board, sends it back to the board
as electrical impulses, which are encoded as ones or zeroes, and then this board converts
those ones and zeroes into an analog signal
that your TV can read. It may also have digital signals as well, but I believe this one just has analog out and so we're gonna remove
this ribbon cable if we can. There we go, and there's some neat things
about this ribbon cable. One is that it has a lot of different really fine wires in it, so it allows for a lot of different signals to be sent and it has this stiff piece
of plastic at the end, which allows it to be easily plugged into the very narrow slot there. Alright, so now we're gonna take a look at the DVD drive itself, so
first thing we're gonna look at is the structure and the
mechanical components, and then in the next video, we'll look at the laser and how it works, so in this part, let's flip it over here. We've got a number of
different components, so we have three motors, as expected. Remember, the one motor here causes the spindle to turn
around, that's this thing. This motor actually drives these gears and causes the laser assembly to move. You can see it's shifting
there, moving back and forth, and this motor causes
the tray to slide out and to move out from the actual player so that you can put your disk in and have it spun around and
read, so there are a number of really fascinating
engineering things on this. One of the things they have to
do with a board like this is it's super important that
everything remains very accurate and that there's a large
degree of precision because the disk is reading a very small, or the laser is reading a
very small place on this disk and so in order for it to do that, everything has to line up just right, so there's a number of mechanical and electromechanical devices
that make that possible. So one of the things that is
done there that makes possible is that this has two closed
loop control switches. So an open loop control would be to, say, have this device move
backwards and forwards and have it stop based on time, so maybe our time over
here on the computer says, okay, I'm gonna let
this go for five seconds in this direction and then
when it gets to the end there, it'll go five seconds in this direction. Well, that's great except for the fact that the gears have a
little bit of slack in them, just a little bit, and over time, walking backwards and forwards, the laser could get out of alignment or get off of where it should
be, out of its position. So the engineers have come
up with an ingenious solution and that is that they have
a closed loop control, which means that there's
a switch that gets hit every time that laser gets to the end, so when this rack here, and
this is called a rack and pinion when you have a round gear and teeth on a straight edge like that,
that's a rack and pinion and it converts rotational
motion from the motor into linear motion, and
this small gear to big gear slows the motor's motions way down, so you get a nice, smooth slow motion. It also increases the torque or the power of the
motor, the twisting force, so having all these gear ratios
the way they are enable this to move more smoothly and slowly and with a little bit
more control and power, and so when this gets
to the end of its cycle, it hits this switch,
pushes that switch down and resets the entire
device so that it knows, oh, hey, I'm at zero, and
so it resets every time and you don't have to worry about it getting out of alignment. There's another closed loop
control switch right here and so it's very, very important that everything remain in true alignment, and so that's what these
switches are there for. So this resets every time
the CD tray opens and closes, so whenever the tray opens and closes, it resets and lets the player know, lets the motor controller and
control board know over here, hey, I'm at zero again,
and so then it knows how to run through a sequence again to operate in exactly
the way it's supposed to. Again, if you use time or some other way of controlling the motor,
it may pull the device, it may pull the train too far, it may pull it hard
against the other plastic and wear the motor out, but when you have that switch in there, you
can reset it every time. Keeps things running smoothly. Okay, and so we can also take a look at this metal bracket here that
is holding these two motors. This motor is the motor
that turns the spindle and this is, again, the
motor that moves the laser, and so they're mounted
on this metal bracket which means that they're
very stable and solid and the bracket has been made rigid by having these bends in it, so it gives it a really strong, sturdy... It's very strong and sturdy
and rigid because of the bends. They add stiffness to the metal, and there's these two
little rubber pieces here and these screws, and those
rubber pieces actually allow the drive plate, this
metal plate, to drop down, so the plate actually
pivots down like this when the DVD comes out,
and that's important because you can see that the spinner head is actually above the tray, so
if the DVD came in like this, it would hit right
there, it wouldn't work, so the tray has to swing
down, and it does that. There's grooves along the
side that allow the tray to swing down and out of the way, so when this tray, when
the CD stops spinning, this drops down and the
DVD can move out of the way and when the DVD gets put
in, it goes into right here and then this bracket
moves up and grabs the DVD and allows it to spin freely, so it's not rubbing on the plastic. So that's how that part works. Again, the metal's really critical because it provides that rigid platform and helps to maintain
that dimensional stability which is required to keep
everything just locked in place, and you can see that these
two metal bars here are tightly connected to this metal bracket, this stiffening bracket,
and they allow for the laser to track very smoothly across this edge and you can see there's
one contact point here and then there's a long
edge that's on that point and that helps to maintain very consistent accuracy
and smooth motion. These rods are smooth
and polished and again, allow the laser to track
in a very smooth pattern, and you can see that these are
injection molded parts here and the ribs here add
stiffening and strength and complete the DVD drive and allow you to also fasten all the
different components together.