Whenever we turn on the news
and see an earthquake or a volcanic eruption, it's a constant reminder
that the Earth is alive, that the Earth is in motion. Hi, I'm David Shimabukuro, I'm a geologist,
and I'm talking to you from the campus of UC Berkeley. I'm going to tell you a little
bit about plate tectonics. The surface of Earth may look
to be a continuous body, but it's not. It's actually broken up
into dozens of rigid plates, which can move
independently of each other. Some parts of these
plates are continents, some parts of it are oceans. Some of these plates
are really large. The Pacific plate, for
example, takes up a fifth of the Earth's surface. Other plates are smaller. The Juan De Fuca plate off the northwest
coast of America is about the size of Oregon
and Washington combined. Oceanic plates plays a special
role in plate tectonics. They're born at
an undersea volcano, a 40,000-mile-long ridge
that rings the Earth. Here, the mantle rises,
melts and forms oceanic crust. From here, the oceanic
crust moves outward, eventually diving
back down into the mantle at subduction zones. The mid-ocean ridges
and where the crust is born and the subduction zones where crust dives
are the visible part of a larger circulation system,
which includes the mantle. This circulation system is what drives
and moves continents. So, how fast do
tectonic plates move? Well, take a look
at your fingernails. Plates move at about the speed
your fingernails grow. This seems almost
imperceptibly slow, but given the vastness
of geologic time, huge distances can be covered. For example, the Atlantic Ocean. Today, you can cross
it in an airline in about six or seven hours. Nature, using plate tectonics, built it in 180 million years, all at the speed that
your fingernails grow. How does plate tectonics
affect us today? Well, at the boundary between
some plates, they stick. Places like the San Andreas
Fault in California or offshore of Japan, the plates slide past
each other but get caught. Year after year,
the strain builds up and builds up, until bam,
one day the plates slide and the earthquake happens. It's hundreds or thousands of
these combined events that move continents
from place to place and create the pattern
we see on the globe. Let's rewind the clock. 250 million years ago, the Earth was a
vastly different place. All seven continents
were combined together in a supercontinent
known as Pangea. At this time, the
Atlantic didn't exist. If you were alive at that time, you could've walked
from New York to North Africa or from Brazil to West Africa. An ancient ocean
known as the Tethys separated different
parts of this supercontinent, the northern part
from the southern part. In the southern region,
an area known as Gondwana, Africa, South America, Australia, and Antarctica
were combined together. Things began changing about
a 180 million years ago when the North Atlantic
started opening up. At this time,
Gondwana started to spilt up. Australia and Antarctica
went their ways. India split off. It was pulled northward
by a piece of ocean crust which was subducting
underneath Asia. This piece of the ocean
crust pulled it northward until India collided with Asia, driving up the mighty
Himalaya Mountains. At that time, the Tethys
Ocean also disappeared. We know this because
there's fragments of this ancient ocean
caught up in the Alps and the Himalayas. This is the making
of the modern world. It took nature 250 million
years all at the speed that your fingernails grow.