If you start with an alkene
and add to that alkene a percarboxylic acid,
you will get epoxide. So this is an
epoxide right here, which is where you have oxygen
in a three-membered ring with those two carbons there. You can open up this ring using
either acid or base catalyzed, and we're going to talk about
an acid catalyzed reaction in this video. And what ends up happening
is you get two OH groups that add on anti, so
anti to each other across from your double bond. So the net result is you end
up oxidizing your alkene. So you could assign
some oxidation numbers on an actual
problem and find out that this is an
oxidation reaction. All right. Let's look at the mechanism
to form our epoxide. So we start with our
percarboxylic acid here, which looks a lot
like a carboxylic acid except it has an extra oxygen. And the bond between these
two oxygen atoms is weak, so this bond is going to
break in the mechanism. The other important
thing to note about the structure of
our percarboxylic acid is the particular
confirmation that it's in. So this hydrogen
ends up being very close to this oxygen
because there's a source of attraction
between those atoms. There's some intramolecular
hydrogen bonding that keeps it in
this conformation. When the percarboxylic acid
approaches the alkene, when it gets close enough
in this confirmation, the mechanism will begin. This is a concerted
eight electron mechanism, which means that
eight electrons are going to move at the same time. So the electrons in this bond
between oxygen and hydrogen are going to move down here to
form a bond with this carbon. The electrons in
this pi bond here are going to move out
and grab this oxygen. That's going to break this
weak oxygen-oxygen bond, and those electrons
move into here. And then finally, the
electrons in this pi bond are going to move
to here to form an actual bond between that
oxygen and that hydrogen. So let's see if we can draw the
results of this concerted eight electron mechanism. So, of course, at
the bottom here we're going to form our epoxide. So we draw in our carbons, and
then we can put in our oxygen here. And then we show the bond
between those like that. And then up at the top here,
here's my carbonyl carbon. So now there's only one
bond between that carbon and this oxygen. There is a new bond that
formed between that oxygen and that hydrogen, and there
is an R group over here. And then there used to be
only one bond to this oxygen, but another lone
pair of electrons moved in to form
a carbonyl here. So this is our
other product, which you can see is a
carboxylic acid. Let's color code
these electrons so we can follow them a
little bit better. So let's make these electrons in
here, those electrons are going to form the bond on the
left side between the carbon and the oxygen like that. All right. Let's follow these
electrons next. So now let's look
at these electrons in here, the electrons
in this pi bond. Those are the ones
that are going to form this side of our
epoxide ring like that. And let's make our
oxygen-oxygen bond blue here. So the electrons
in this bond, those are the ones that moved in here
to form our carbonyl like that. And then let's go ahead and
make these green right here, the electrons in
this bond right here. These are the ones
that moved out here to form the bond between
our oxygen and our hydrogen. So our end result is to
form a carboxylic acid and our epoxide. Let's look at a reaction,
an actual reaction for the formation of
epoxide, and then we'll talk about how to
form a diol from that. So if we start with
cyclohexene-- let's go ahead and draw cyclohexene in here. Let's do another one. That one wasn't very good. So we draw our cyclohexene
ring like that. And to cyclohexene, we're
going to add peroxyacetic acid. So what does peroxyacetic
acid look like? Well, it's based on acetic acid. But it has one extra oxygen in
there, so it looks like that. So that's our peroxyacetic acid. So we add cyclohexene
to peroxyacetic acid, we're going to form an epoxide. So we're going to form a
three-membered ring, including oxygen. I'm going to say the oxygen adds
to the top face of our ring. It doesn't really
matter for this example, but we'll go ahead and put in
our epoxide using wedges here. And that must mean
going away from us, those are hydrogens in space. So that's the epoxide that
would form using the mechanism that we put above there. Let's go ahead and open
this up epoxide using acid. So just to refresh everyone's
memory, go back up here. Now we're going to look
at this second part where we add H3O plus
to form our diol. So let's take a
look at that now. So we're going to add
H3O plus to this epoxide. And I'm going to
redraw our epoxide to give us a better
view point here. So I'm going to put my oxygen
right here, and then that's bonded to our two
carbons like this. And then we see if we can
draw the rest of the ring. And so in the back
here, here is the rest of my cyclohexane
ring like that. And we'll go ahead and put in
our lone pairs of electrons. So this is the same
exact drawing above here. Now I have my H3O plus
in here like this, so my hydronium ion is present
with a lone pair of electrons, giving us a plus one
formal charge like that. So the oxygen on our epoxide
is going to act as a base. It's going to take a proton. So this lone pair
of electrons is going to take this
proton right here, which would kick these electrons
in here off onto my oxygen. So let's draw the result
of that acid-base reaction. So I'm going to make
a protonated epoxide. So let's go ahead and
draw our oxygen here, and it's connected to
those carbons down here. So I'll go ahead and draw the
rest of my ring in the back here like that. And then one lone pair of
electrons didn't do anything, so it's still there. One lone pair of
electrons is the one that formed the
bond on that proton, so this is my structure now. And this would give this oxygen
a plus one formal charge, so it's positively charged now. So this is the same structure
that we saw in the earlier videos, like with our
cyclic halonium ion. And just like the
cyclic halonium ion in those earlier videos-- check
out the halohydrin video-- you're going to get a
partial carbocation character with these carbons down here. So the resonance hybrid is
going to give these carbons some partial positive character. So when water comes
along as a nucleophile, the lone pair of
electrons on water are going to be attracted
to those carbons. So opposite charges attract. These two blue carbons
are partially positive. The negative electrons
are attracted to the partially
positive carbon, and you're going to get
nucleophilic attacks. So let's say this lone pair of
electrons attacks right here. Well, that would kick the
electrons in this bond off onto your oxygen. So let's go ahead and draw
the result of an attack on the carbon on the left. So let's get some
more room here. So what would happen
in that instance? Well, let's go ahead and draw
our cyclohexane ring back here. So here is our cyclohexane ring. The oxygen attacked
the carbon on the left. So there is the oxygen that
did the nucleophilic attack, so it has two hydrogens on it. It has one lone pair
of electrons now, and it formed a plus
one formal charge. Our epoxide opened. The electrons kicked
off onto the top oxygen and that means that the
top oxygen moves over here like that. So that would be your structure. Well, this lone
pair electrons could have attacked this
carbon, right? This carbon could have been
the partially positive one in the resonance hybrid, which
would kick these electrons off onto this oxygen. So let's go ahead
and draw the result of that nucleophilic attack. So I'll go ahead and put in
my cyclohexane ring like that. This time our oxygen is going to
bond with a carbon on the left, two hydrogens attach to it,
a lone pair of electrons, a positive one formal charge. And then this time
the oxygen on top is going to kick off onto
this oxygen over here in the left like that. So you're going to
get an OH over there. So in the next step of the
mechanism-- we're almost done, we've almost formed our diol. We're going to have
water come along. And this time, instead of
water acting as a nucleophile, water is going to act as a base. It's going to take a proton. So let's look at the
product on the left, here. So this lone pair
of electrons would take one of these protons,
kick these electrons off onto your oxygen like that. So let's go ahead
and draw the result of that acid-base reaction. So let's draw our
cyclohexane ring like that, and now we have an OH down here. So this is now an OH,
and this was an OH. So we've achieved our product. We've added 2 OHs
anti to each other. Same thing can happen over here. You could grab these. You could grab this proton,
kick these electrons off onto your oxygen like that. And so on the right, after
we draw our cyclohexane ring, we're going to have
an OH right here. And then we're going to have
an OH over here like that. So we have two products. And if you look
at them, they are mirror images of each other. If I were to put a
mirror right here, you would see that they would
be reflected in a mirror. And they are nonsuperimposable. So nonsuperimposable
mirror images, enantiomers. So you're going to get two
products for this reaction. So just to summarize
this reaction, let's do it one more time. Let's start with
the cyclohexene. And in the first step
of our mechanism, the first of our reaction here,
we added peroxyacetic acid. So we added CH3CO3H. And in the second
step of our mechanism, in the second step
of our reactions here, we added H3O plus. And so that opened
up the epoxide that formed to form our diol,
and we get two products. So this product over
here on the left, let's go ahead and redraw
this product over here on the left in a way that's
a little bit more familiar. So once again, I put
my eye right here. I stare down at this top carbon. If this is the top of my head,
this OH is coming out at me. So I would draw that product. I would draw my cyclohexane
ring, and at that top carbon I would show the OH
coming out at me. And then, of course, at
this carbon down here, the OH would be
going away from me. So I go ahead and draw my OH
as a dash here, down here. And then I do the same thing
with this one right here. So if I stare down
at that molecule, once again, if I stare
down here and look this way, this time
at this top carbon-- if my head's right here, top of
my head, this OH would be down. So I go ahead and put a dash
right here and put my OH. And then, over here, at this
carbon it would be going up. So it might be easier to see
that these are enantiomers when you look at
them drawn like this. A different absolute
configuration at both carbons. So this is how to form
an epoxide and one way to make a diol. In the next video we will see
another way to make a diol, although it will add
in a different way to give you a slightly
different product.