- A couple of weeks ago I
thought about a strategy for reproduction that the
very first plants came up with called alternation of generations. The strategy that nonvascular
plants still use today. Hopefully this is coming back to you. A plant can take two
different forms that alternate back and forth between generations. The first form, the
sporophyte, has diploid cells, two sets of chromosomes
and the second form, the gametophyte, has haploid cells, just one set of chromosome. Well a lot can happen
in 470 million years. Today, vascular plants still use the basic alternation of generations
model but they've tricked it out so that it works a whole
lot different than it did back in the Ordovician swamps
where planthood got its start. Compared with their small,
damp, nonvascular brethren vascular plants, with all
their cones and flowers and other flashy accessories
to look like a bunch of drag queens at a Carmen Miranda conference and Samba dance-off. Which might seem like
overkill but we rely on these crazy kooks and their upstart
reproductive strategies for-- pretty much for our
everything, the food we eat, the air we breathe, the bouquets
that we send to our wives and girlfriends when they're mad at us. Basically, what I'm saying is, that we need vascular plants to have sex. (upbeat music) So as you'll recall, the
alternation of generations in nonvascular plants is
pretty straightforward. A gametophyte produces
either sperm or eggs which find each other if it's wet enough for the sperm to swim to the nearest egg. Once the egg is fertilized,
the gametophyte creates the sporophyte, which is the
little capsule on a stalk that has a bunch of spores in it. The spores are released into the air, they land in a moist place, germinate, and bam a new gametophyte
generation is born. But nonvascular plants are what you call gametophyte dominant. What you're looking at
when you look at a moss or hornwort or a liverwort
is the gametophyte. It's the form that has only
one set of chromosomes. For them, the sporophytes
are tiny and tucked away inside the gametophytes,
which they rely on for food, water, and protection. But vascular plants, it's the opposite. They're sporophyte dominant. When you look at a fern or a
pine tree or a morning glory you're looking at the
sporophyte generation. And the gametophytes are
the teeny, tiny sex making materials that it has stashed
away in special parts. So yes, all vascular plants
are sporophyte dominant but that does not mean that they
all reproduce in the same way. No sir! The simplest form of
vascular plants are the ferns which reproduce a lot
like nonvascular plants in that they have spores
that grow on the underside of the frond, or fern
leaf, which are released into the wild, blue yonder to find a nice soggy patch of
ground to germinate on. The spore then makes a tiny gametophyte which is only a few centimeters wide and has both male and
female reproductive organs on the underside of its leaves. If it's moist enough,
the sperm on the boy side of the gametophyte will find
the egg on the girl side and it will create a sporophyte, which is what we recognize as a fern. There's a lot of fossil
evidence to suggest that at one point there
probably were ferns that produced seeds and that
all the fancy pants vascular plants that do have seeds and
flowers evolved from them. But those seed-bearing
ferns are all extinct now, so we can just gaze longingly
at their fossils and wonder what their alternation
of generations looked like. But there are other groups of
plants that are more complex than ferns and what they
all have in common is that they reproduce by creating pollen, which contains the male gametophyte and the female gametophytes, or ovules, which are fertilized by the pollen. The complete fertilized
cell grows into a seed, which ripens and can produce
a complete adult plant. So reiterating, in your more
advanced vascular plants, that's how the alternation
of generation works. The sporophyte generation
grows from a seed and produces tiny gametophytes,
either pollen or ovules. They then combine to form another seed, which produces another sporophyte. This evolutionary change
from spores to seeds was a big deal and it
began with the gymnosperms. They're single-serving,
plant-making packages. Cut out the middle man by
allowing an adult plant to grow immediately from a seed, rather than having to wait
for a spore to go through that intermediate gametophyte stage. It also means, in most
cases, that there doesn't have to be water present
in order to reproduce. Today, gymnosperms
include conifers, ginkgos, and tropical palm-like
plants called cycads and none of them produce flowers because they evolved before
flowers were invented. Instead, their reproductive
structures are cones and you've seen a few
of these in your day. In fact, their name
gymnosperm means naked seed and that comes from the fact
that their ovules develop exposed on the surface
of the cone's scales. Now what we think of as cones
are the spiky, woody things that Boy Scouts are throwing
at each other at camp, right? But those things are actually female cones which house the ovules. The male cones are
smaller and kind of spongy and their job is to crank out pollen. All this pollen is carried on the wind and some of it might find
its way to a female cone where it fertilizes the
ovule located at the base of each of the scales of the female cone. As the fertilized embryo
matures, inside the cone, it makes a seed,
containing enough nutrients to sustain it for a while
after it germinates. The seed has a tough,
shiny casing to protect it from the elements and once it's matured, the scales of the female
cone just peel back and the seed falls to the
ground and makes a new tree. But some gymnosperms
have evolved a need for special conditions in order to reproduce. Take the lodgepole pine. It's a super tough tree that
evolved in a pretty dry climate where there's lots of lightning
storms that regularly start fires that burn through
a forest every few years. Not only do lodgepoles have
no problem withstanding a good low-intensity forest fire, their female cones are
serotinous, so they will only open and drop their seeds when
exposed to extreme heat. Now this sounds kind of crazy,
but really it's super smart because the lodgepoles have evolved to take advantage of forest fires. They know that the forest
fire will probably get rid of a lot of pesky underbrush that
would crowd out their babies and maybe even it would kill
some adult lodgepole pines so they just wait for the
competition to be removed before they expose their seeds. So now I'm fixing to pull out
the big guns, the angiosperms, because the angiosperms
are the winners of the all-invitational plant division of things that live on Earth, at least for the past
140 million years or so. They're rookies really but
they know what they're doing. For starters, they have
seeds like gymnosperms but they also have flowers
and flowers are awesome because they don't have
to rely on the wind to carry their pollen to another flower like gymnosperms do with their cones. For the most part, flowers
put animals to work, toting their pollen from
one flower to another. In fact, angiosperms and
flying insects probably evolved together, or co-evolved. The flowers providing food for the insects in the form of nectar
and the insects providing transportation for the pollen to another flower's female
reproductive parts. This my friends is what we call mutualism, the interaction of two organisms which mutually benefits both. Angiosperms reproduce by making flowers that contain the gametophytes. In this case, the sporophyte is made up of the stem and the roots and the
leaves and even the flowers. All of the other parts of
the plant except the pollen and the ovum, which are
the actual gametophytes. Some flowers contain both
male and female gametophytes. These are called perfect flowers,
no pressure other flowers. Other flowers have both
male and female sex organs on the same plant but in different flowers and some have male and female flowers on entirely different plants. There are no rules with angiosperms, they're just winging it. To see how flowers work, let's take a look at a perfect flower as an example because a lot of the
garden flowers you see have both male and female
reproductive parts. Starting from the bottom
up, a flower as sepals, which look like leaves or petals, but they're usually green tissue that covered the flower
when it was a little bud. The petals are usually colored to attract a certain kind of pollinator like a flag. The male parts of flowers
consists of an anther which produces the pollen
and sits on the end of a long filament attached
to the base of the flower. This whole male reproductive set up like this is called a stamen. Now when it comes to lady parts,
in contrast to gymnosperms, angiosperms don't leave their
eggs hanging out all exposed. They lock their ovules down in an ovary at the bottom of a vase-like structure which also has a neck called a style and opening at the top called a stigma. Now all that's left is to get
the male gametes packaged up and their gametophyte, the pollen, and have them carried to
the female gametophyte, the ovule, to fertilize them. This is pollination and
flowers do it by luring animals with smells, colors
and food and in return, the animals mix and match the pollen with different individual flowers. Bees are the most famously
successful at this but lots of other insects do it too as well as birds, like
hummingbirds and even some bats. So no matter who does it,
after fertilization happens, the ovule starts to swell
and the ovule wall starts to toughen up because it's
going to become a seed. The ovary meanwhile
starts to grow around it and become the fruit. Now there are a bunch of
different types of fruit. Fruit is defined as
anything that the ovary, the protection around
the seed, turns into. So anything that contains
a seed is a fruit. And that's a lot of
different things including many, many things we
think of as not a fruit. To test your fruit skills,
how about a round of fruit and not a fruit? So which one of these is the fruit and which one of them is the not a fruit? One, a sandspur you get while
walking around the beach or a carrot? Answer, a sandspur, the little
annoying thing that attaches to your pants is actually the
swollen up ovary of a flower. A carrot is the root of plant. A stalk of celery or a
piece of dandelion fluff? Fluff fluff. That little piece of fluff is
attached to a dry little fruit that contains the seed. Celery is the actual
stalk of a celery plant. A strawberry or a zucchini? The zucchini. A strawberry is actually
the swollen end of the stem of the strawberry flower so
it doesn't contain the seed, it actually has the seeds on the outside. It's one of the hard little
things on the outside of the strawberry, those are the fruit. Some people argue about this because what seems more
fruity than a strawberry But zucchinis? They're definitely fruits
because they contain seeds. Fruits are important to angiosperms because they like to get
their seeds as far away from themselves as possible
so they're not competing with their own offspring. So some fruits can be
carried away by the wind while others move around
by being totally delicious so they can be eaten by
an elephant and pooped out in an elephant turd far, far away. So that's the steamy sex
lives of vascular plants. Mmm, wow that is good.