In the last video, we saw
that sodium borohydride will reduce aldehydes
or ketones to form primary or secondary alcohols. And if we look at
this general reaction, this is either an aldehyde
or a ketone over here. If we add lithium aluminum
hydride in the first step and then a source of protons
in the second step-- which is water-- we will form either a
primary or a secondary alcohol, depending on our
starting materials. So in that respect,
lithium aluminum hydride will react in the same
way as sodium borohydride. However, sodium
borohydride will only reduce aldehydes or ketones. It won't reduce carboxylic
acids or esters. And that's what lithium
aluminum hydride does. So we can see that-- if
this is an OH right here-- that would be a carboxylic
acid functional group. And if we take off the H
and put in an alkyl group in our prime group there,
we would have an ester. So lithium aluminum
hydride, not only reduces aldehydes
and ketones, it also reduces carboxylic
acids and esters since it's more
reactive, which is also why we have to
separate these two. We can't have water in
the same reaction vessel as our lithium aluminum
hydride because it will react with that faster. And so once again,
our product will depend on what our
starting material is. So the mechanism
for the reduction of aldehydes or ketones with
lithium aluminum hydride is just like the one
for sodium borohydride. So we'll move on to a mechanism
for the reduction of an ester. So let's go ahead and do that. So let's start with
an ester down here. So we have our carbonyl. Like that. So we'll put in our lone pairs. And down here, we have
our R prime group. Like that. So there's our ester. And we add lithium
aluminum hydride in excess. So in terms of
molar equivalence, let's go ahead and put lithium
aluminum hydride down here, Li+. And then, we have Al
bonded to 4 hydrogens. Like that. And that's going to
give the aluminum a negative 1 formal charge. Like that. So the first step
in the mechanism is just like the one we
did in the previous video. All right. We think about the carbonyl
up here and the difference in electronegativity between
this carbon and this oxygen-- oxygen being more
electronegative, pulling these electrons closer
towards it and the double bond, giving it a partial
negative charge. Whereas the carbon down here is
losing some electron density, becoming partially positive. So the carbonyl carbon
is an electrophile. It wants electrons. And of course, it's
going to get electrons from these 2 electrons in here. So these 2 electrons are
going to attack this carbon. All right. So a nucleophilic attack. And kick these electrons
off onto our oxygen. So that's our first step-- the
nucleophilic attack portion. So now, we have R.
And it used to have 2 bonds to carbon and oxygen. Now, it has only 1 bond
because those electrons moved off onto the
oxygen, giving the oxygen a negative 1 formal charge. Like that. So we added on our hydrogen. Like that. And then, we still have
our O and our R prime group over here. So it will look like that. In the next step
of this reaction, the carbonyl's going to reform. So the electrons in here are
going to kick back into here to reform our carbonyl. That would mean 5
bonds to carbon-- which we know never happens-- so
that these electrons are going to have to break and
come off onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead and
draw the results of that. So now, we have R
bonded to carbon. Now, we reformed our carbonyls. Now, we have only two
lone pairs of electrons on that oxygen now. And then, we still
have a hydrogen. Right here. All right. So we lost an oxygen
with an R prime group. And that oxygen is going to
have three lone pairs around it with a negative 1 formal charge. Oxygen being relatively
electronegative, it can handle that
formal charge fairly well and be relatively stable. So now we have an aldehyde. And we know that this
reaction can occur again with an aldehyde. So since you have extra lithium
aluminum hydride floating around, what's going to
happen is another reaction. Right? So another reaction just
like the one we just did. We're going to have our
lithium aluminum hydride again. It's so reactive, you
can't stop this reaction from occurring a second time. And same idea. Right? Exact same idea. Partial negative oxygen,
partial positive carbon. The carbon wants electrons. It's going to get these
electrons right in here. So these electrons are going
to attack this carbon, bring the hydrogen along
with it, and then these electrons kick
off onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead
and draw the product of that nucleophilic attack. Right now, we have
an R group here and we have our carbon
bonded to an oxygen. Once again, it used to
have two lone pairs. Now it has three, giving it
a negative 1 formal charge. And this hydrogen
over here on the right is going to stay here. And we added on
another hydrogen. Like that. All right. So in the second step
of this reaction, we're going to add water. So we go back up here
to refresh our memory. In the second step
of this reaction, you add water as
a proton source. So let's go ahead and draw
water floating around there. So here is our H20 molecule. And we're going to get
an acid-base reaction. We're going to get a
lone pair of electrons attacking and
grabbing that proton there, kicking these
electrons off onto the oxygen. So we're going to protonate
that alkoxide anion. So you form our alcohol finally. So we're finally done. Now, we have r and then
we have oxygen bonded to that hydrogen there. And now only two lone pairs,
the formal charge goes away. And you can see what
we've done here. We've actually added
on two hydrogens to our original carbonyl carbon. All right. This is my original
carbonyl carbon. And if I look at it
over here, there's actually no hydrogen
attached to it over here. Both of those hydrogens came
from our lithium aluminum hydride. So this one and this one. So the reaction happened twice. All right. So if you're doing this
reaction with a carboxylic acid, it's a similar mechanism. We don't have time
to go through it. But you're going to end
up with the same product. You're going to add
on two hydrogens on to that original
carbonyl carbon. Like that. So let's look at
the chemoselectivity of this reaction. OK. So now that we've covered
sodium borohydride and lithium aluminum hydride,
let's see how you can choose which one of those
reagents is the best to use. So if I start here with
our reactants-- so let's make it a benzene ring. Like that. And let's put stuff
on the benzene ring. OK. So let's go ahead and
put a double bond here. And then, we'll make this
an aldehyde functional group on one end. And then over here on this
end, I'm going to put an ester. Like that. And let's look at how
we can selectively transform different parts
of this molecule using different reagents. So let's say we were to
do a reaction wherein we add on sodium borohydride. And then, the proton
source in the second step. So we need to think about
what's going to happen. Sodium borohydride is selective
for aldehydes and ketones only. It will not reduce
carboxylic acids or esters. So it's only going to react with
the aldehyde at the top right portion of this molecule. So let's see if we
can draw this in here. So it's going to react with
the aldehyde in the top right portion. All right. So we are still going to
have our double bond here. And the aldehyde's going to go
away to form a primary alcohol. So we're going to
get primary alcohol where the aldehyde used to be. Sodium borohydride has
reduced that carbonyl. And the second step-- the
protonation of the alkyloxide-- forms your primary
alcohol as your product. And the rest of the molecule's
going to stay the same. So this ester is going to
remain untouched down here. So it's the chemoselectivity
of that reaction. All right. Let's say we start with
the same starting material. And the first
step-- this time we add lithium aluminum hydride. Like that. And the second step--
we add some water. Well, lithium
aluminum hydride will reduce aldehydes and ketones,
and it will also reduce esters. So lithium aluminum
hydride in excess-- so let's just assume
this is at an excess here-- it's going to react
with this aldehyde portion of the molecule. It's also going to
react with this ester portion of the molecule. So it's going to reduce both
of those and form alcohol. So let's go ahead and try
to draw the product here. All right. So we have our benzene
ring, which is untouched. And up here, we know that
lithium aluminum hydride is going to form a
primary alcohol as well. Like that. And then, down here, what used
to be our ester functional group, we're going to add two
molar equivalents of hydrogen to that carbonyl. And we're going
to end up breaking that bond between the carbonyl
carbon and that oxygen. All of this over here
is going to go away as a leaving group
in our mechanism. And we're going to add on
two hydrogens to that carbon. And then, that's going
to form our alcohol. So we're going to add two
hydrogens onto that carbon, forming a primary alcohol
down here as well-- just like in the mechanism
that we just discussed. So reduction of esters using
lithium aluminum hydride. What about if we were
to add a hydrogen gas and palladium as our
metal catalyst here? Well, this is also
a reduction reaction that we talked about earlier. Hydrogenation is an example
of a reduction reaction. And it's going to
be chemoselective. If you just used the normal
conditions for a hydrogenation reaction, the only thing
the hydrogenation reaction is going to touch
is this double bond. It's going to reduce
this double bond. So let's go ahead
and draw the product. It's not going to
touch the aldehyde. It's not going to
touch the ester. And it's not going to
touch the benzene ring. So let's go ahead
and draw the product. The benzene ring
is not hydrogenated under normal
conditions, but we're going to add on two hydrogens
across that double bond. And the aldehyde is untouched. And down here, the ester is
going to be untouched as well. So that would be our product
from a hydrogenation. So three different reductions,
three different products. Now, hydrogen will
reduce carbonyls under the right conditions. Usually, if you have increased
pressure and increased temperatures, you actually
can reduce those carbonyls. But again, you can
control those conditions. So you can control what part
of the molecule is reduced. So that sums up the ways to
reduce carbonyl compounds using sodium borohydride and
lithium aluminum hydride. In the next video or
two, we'll take a look at organometallics
and particularly the Grignard reagent.