I'm Nicholas Toth. I'm a professor of archaeology
at Indiana University and co-director of the Stone Age
Institute. And archaeology is the study
of ancient people and the world
that they lived in. And archaeologists
do a lot of work. They're digging,
they're looking for new sites, they're exploring,
surveying over time. And I got into archaeology
at a very early age. I was about six years old. And I had an uncle who had
a collection of spear points and very similar to the one
I'm holding here. And I was absolutely fascinated
by how were these things made, who were the people
that made them, et cetera. And I decided at that age I was going to become
an archaeologist. And when I was in high school,
I actually corresponded with the famous anthropologist-
archaeologist Louis Leakey. Louis and Mary Leakey
are famous for digging at Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania,
some of the earliest sites in the world. And much to my surprise, he
actually wrote back, and that inspired me to go into
archaeology as a career. And I studied
archaeology in Ohio and then as a graduate student
at Oxford University and the University
of California. And archaeology
tends to be divided into historical
archaeology where your... you have written records
of the people that were left behind
that can really help you flesh out what their
world was like. And then prehistoric
archaeology, before the written record,
and that's the time period I focus on,
especially the Stone Age. The Stone Age occupies
over 99 percent of the history
of human technology, so it's a very important
aspect. And we evolved from a very
small-brained animal during that two-and-a-half
million years to a very large-brained animal
as well, so it's a real challenge. And we interface with
a lot of other disciplines. Geology, the geologists
who study the geological context and how our sites became buried
and what kinds of evidence about climate are left behind. We deal with
primate paleontologists who study the animal bones from
archaeological sites as well. We deal with climatologists who
study climate change over time. And so, these are some
of the types of disciplines that we work very closely with. The things I like
about archaeology, it's an outdoor discipline,
you spend a lot of your time outside hiking, looking
for new localities, and digging. And digging is not easy either. It's a very strenuous
activity you do but we love it. And so there's
the field component, and there's also
the laboratory component, where you have to analyze
the materials that you've dug up and make sense out of. And we do a lot
of what's called experimental
archaeology as well. In our case, learning to
make and use stone tools like our ancestors did. And once you do that, you'll
learn to make stone tools. In fact, I made this
stone tool here. You get a much
better appreciation for how our ancestors
were doing things and being able
to identify patterns that make sense in the
prehistoric record as well. And the big questions
we're asking in archaeology, one of them is what is
driving human evolution? You get this
incredible expansion in the brain,
human brain over time, tripling in size in
two-and-a-half million years. Why did that happen? It probably has a lot
to do with selection from more intelligent creatures, but how much does technology
have to do with it? How much does hunting
have to do with it? How much does dealing with
larger social groups, if they're group sizes
are getting larger over time, have to do with it?
These are the types of things that we're trying to tease out. And the other thing is
what accounts for the changes we see in the
archaeological record, when people shift
from hunters and gatherers to farmers or from farmers
to civilizations? Why does that happen? How much of it has to
do with climate change? How much... how much of it
has to do with new ways of exploiting your
resources, et cetera. So, these are big questions
that archaeologists are asking. So, if you're interested
in becoming an archaeologist, I would advise you to visit
your local museums and archaeological sites
in your area. And also to volunteer. Oftentimes, they will take
volunteers on archaeological digs
and it's a great way of getting firsthand experience. That's how... that's how I
started as an undergraduate in college, volunteering to work
on archaeological projects.