(gentle music) - [Steven] We're standing in the galleries in the Aga Khan Museum in Toronto, looking at one of the most famous, if not the most celebrated
Persian miniature. It is absolutely drop-dead stunning. This is a single folio,
that is, a single page from a much larger book. - [Michael] "The Shahnameh" was composed around the year 1000, 1010. There are many, many
manuscripts of "The Shahnameh." This particular manuscript was produced with 258 illustrations,
around the year 1525,1535, so a good 500 years after
the composition of the text. - [Steven] Shahnameh
means The Book of Kings, and it is literally a mytho-history of the rulers of ancient Persia. - [Michael] "The Shahnameh"
covers the reign of 50 kings. So frequently, scholars
talk about the text as having three sections: the first being a mythical section, the second being a heroic section, and the third being a historical section. - [Steven] This volume would
have been fabulously expensive to produce. It took decades. - [Michael] Entire
departments or libraries of a king's court would have been funded and mobilized with teams of workers, artists of different specialties, from gilding to painting and drawing to using lapis to creating a binding, whole teams of artists brought together over many, many years to
create a single manuscript. This particular manuscript is large. It's lavishly illustrated. There's lot of gold and really
high-quality pigments used, and as you can see, you have the absolute height
of artistry and draftsmanship coming together to create an
incredibly gorgeous scene. - [Steven] The longer
I look, the more I see. There are the three principal figures, but then there are an
almost uncountable number of subsidiary figures,
some that are so subtle that they're almost
impossible to recognize. You also have animals. You have embedded figures
in the stones thesmselves in a sort of playful way to
engage your viewing of this. These pictures were meant
to be lovingly contemplated. They were meant to draw you in. Here, we see the principal
figure of Kayumars, the first king in the Persian tradition, and he's the one who brings
civilization to the world. And so we see here a coming together of all different kinds of people who have just learned how
to live in a civilized, harmonious way, and even the
animals are seated side by side in absolute harmony. - [Steven] The king is
seated at the mountaintop, and below him you can see a waterfall that I'm assuming was once bright silver spilling down into this lush landscape that's filled with vegetation,
it's filled with animals, and it is like a paradise. - [Michael] That's right. It's a paradise, and it's a paradise on
the brink of being lost, and this one of the great
poignances of this painting. We believe that the figure that Kayumars is signaling toward is his
son, who's about to be killed by the armies of the son of the devil. And we see this moment of
coming together of humanity, of peace between peoples, but with the gesture of
the king toward his son, who is about to be lost, we have the foretelling of imminent doom. It's a piece that hovers on
the precipice of great drama. - [Steven] The verdant
landscape is so rich, it's so fruitful, that it literally spills out
of the frame of the image onto the page itself, and that page is not plain, but speckled with this wonderful,
playful application of gold. - [Michael] With this mobilization of great artistic genius
behind this piece, we have the gold-speckled borders, as well as this beautifully
executed landscape, not just verdant greenery,
but also multicolor rocks that spill out from
beyond the inner margins. In doing that, it brings
you into this world. And we have a real sense
of a play with depth. We're not just looking at a flat series of elegantly applied colors. We're actually looking into a world. When I look at the clouds
against that gold background, or the way some of those rock
formations are delineated, I can't help but think
about the great history of Chinese painting. - [Michael] For many centuries
preceding the creation of this manuscript, there was really intensive interaction between East Asia and the Iranian world that was most prominently affected by the establishment of a Mongol empire that stretched across the entire expanse of Asia essentially. With that, you had an exchange of ideas, an exchange of visual forms,
an exchange of techniques that get really digested into the Persian painting repertoire. - [Steven] And it's important to note that the script itself is its own art form and one that is prominent in art throughout the Islamic world. - [Michael] That's right. Calligraphy is really
the highest form of art, traditionally, in the Islamic world, and that's because the word
is itself central to Islam. - [Steven] But this is not religious text. This is secular text. This is about the history of Persia, and it's important to Iran as an expression of Iran's
historical identity. - [Michael] That's right. "The Shahnameh" was composed at a time that historians call the Iranian Revival. It was at a moment after the Islamization of the Iranian world, when literature and language in Persian was being reinvigorated. And this particular text
is actually a combination of a lot of different mini epics that were stitched together and versified by the poet Ferdowsi as an expression of this
new revived consciousness of Iranianess at the
turn of the 11th century. - [Steven] And then
half a millennium later, there's an additional revival when the Safavids reestablished
the unity of Persia. - [Michael] That's right. In 1501, you have the establishment
of the Safavid Dynasty, and within a decade or two, you have the quick consolidation of all of the former territories of Iran, which had previously been quite atomized. With this reunification, you have the dominance, once again, of Persian literary forms. Also, the Safavids are quire well known for establishing Shiism as
the state religion of Iran. It's an incredibly historical manuscript. The text, of course, is
central to Iranian identity as the book of Iranian kingship, but also because this
is one of the very few, if not the only, painting
in the Persian tradition that is actually recorded and spoken about by a contemporary historian. A couple decades after this was produced, in the 1540s, a writer, Dust Muhammed, composed a preface to
an album, and in that, he speaks about the
painter, Sultan Mohammed, and he speaks about this painting
in particular of Kayumars, with all of the figures
dressed in leopard skins. And so it's a really important piece. We don't have a lot of paintings
in the Persian tradition that are actually written about
and historically recorded. So this is a very, very
important individual piece, and it's a real treasure
to have here in Toronto. (gentle music)