(music playing) What makes history useful,
usable? More specifically, what makes
the history we teach in schools useful and usable
for our students? Or maybe I should ask it from
the point of view of students-- like, "Why do we have
to learn any of this stuff?" Most students have just one year
of world history in high school, one year to learn something
meaningful, something usable. We think that meaningful
something they can learn is to use
their historical thinking skills to put facts and evidence
together to tell stories, and to evaluate other stories
about the global past. This will help them
to make sense of history and how it applies to themselves and their communities
in the present. Let's take that apart a bit by looking at the long debate
we have had about what to do
in the history classroom. For well over
the almost 50 years I've been teaching history in either a public high school
or a public university, politicians and educators have
waged war over this question with intense
and emotional ferocity between two competing camps, each believing in the
correctness of their positions and the disaster that looms
should the other side win. One group argues, "It's a set
of essential or core facts, "names, dates, and events that make history so important," as they march under the banner,
"Content and Facts Matter Most." Or so some people--
including me-- have long argued and fought for. "No, no, no, no, no!"
their opponents respond. "Memorizing facts is trivial "compared to learning
how to 'do' history "the way historians do history-- how to read and think
like historians," as they wave the banner, "Critical Thinking
Matters Most." Or so some people--
including me-- have argued and fought for. But what if there's a little bit
of truth on both sides? What if students can learn how
to use their historical skills to build stories
from those facts and evidence-- stories that help them
in their daily lives? Well, let me tell you a story. I spent time designing a history
course for students in Detroit. And we used a big
driving question-- "Why did people throughout
history move in and out of the Detroit area?"-- to structure the entire course. We began by asking students
what they thought motivated and caused people
to move into and out of Detroit. What had the students heard? What did they know
about migration to their city? Were these personal stories,
family stories, stories they've learned in
school, in their neighborhood? In their church,
synagogue, or mosque? Were any of these stories
connected to any larger history of the United States
or the world? Without too much
of a setup or discussion, the class collected
the stories they told, looking for similarities
and differences between and among their ideas, their stories
about why people would move in and out of their city. And then, over the course
of the school year, students investigated changes
in migration patterns to southeast Michigan and their impact
over thousands of years, looking for, analyzing,
and interpreting evidence to consider various reasons
why different people-- indigenous peoples,
European settlers, African-Americans, immigrants from Asia, Mexico,
or the Middle East-- migrated to and from
this community, and how it compared
to other communities both in the United States
and elsewhere. In their studies, students
worked-- as historians do-- with primary sources and other historians'
interpretations of these events to construct narratives about
migration to and from Detroit. Moving from the present
to the earliest beginnings of humans' presence on Earth
and back again, over and over, students looked
at individual stories, community stories, national and global stories. They considered how these
accounts supported, extended, or challenged the stories
they brought with them, as they learned to frame
the events of the past in different ways. And they considered
the implications of using different stories to make sense of the past,
the present, and to anticipate the future. By using the power
of narrative-- multiple narratives-- students were able
to situate themselves within a larger history that
connects to their world today. But it also helped them to see
the history of their city in a far more nuanced
and complex way, through the eyes
of multiple people, at multiple levels,
over an extended period of time. Now, this is not easy work. Indeed, it is far more difficult than just helping students
learn a core set of facts or a core set of practices. Yet, there is strong evidence that this approach
will help students not only learn the names
and dates of history, not only apply the skills
of historians adeptly, but to put these ideas to work. And they do have work to do. Students, and indeed all of us, are constantly bombarded
with stories about the past that other people create
to get them and us to see or do things
in a particular way. And students,
and indeed all of us, must make decisions
about the present that involve understanding
what happened in the past. In both cases, we all need to understand
important content and facts; we all need
critical-thinking skills to make informed judgments; and we all need to know how to take apart, work with, and create multiple stories
about the past that influence how we think
and act in the present. Stories are vital and essential
in making history usable, and a feature that schools
have too long ignored in their focus on history's
facts and thinking practices. Adding narratives
to history courses promises to make makes them
far more usable and useful. It will sharpen
students' awareness of the stories and narratives
they met before and during their courses, and will meet long after they've
taken their last history course. So, what are your stories? And how will you use them? (music playing)