So now we've got our yellow wire
that's connected to our switch here. And what we're going
to do is, we're going to run this wire to
the batteries back here. And the best way
I've found to do this is to go ahead and
remove the batteries. And let's bring the
wire around-- we're going to bring it
around like this-- see how long it needs to be. So we need this wire to
intersect with that spring bring back there. So we can trim off
this part like that, and then let's get our
wire strippers here. I may take just a
little bit more off. Now we've got the wire cut. And we're going to
take the wire and just tuck it right
behind that spring. So it's a good use for the
needle-nose pliers here. All right. So that spring should
snap back and pinch that wire against the
outside of the-- I should say-- against the
inside of the battery holder. And we could put our
batteries back in. Whoa. There it goes. You can hear it running. So when we close that switch,
we can turn off the power. All right. Now let's do the
rest of the bot. We've still got a lot
more left to put together. We're going to take
another switch, and we're going to use that
to turn on and off the LED eyeballs. So we'll put that together. And so here are
the LEDs, and let's go ahead and wire those up. So we've got a long
leg and a short leg. You can see on both LEDs. Now, the long leg
is the positive leg, and LEDs are
polarized, which means that the positive
leg is important. You got to connect it to the
positive side of the circuit, otherwise it's
not going to work. The power can only flow through
the LED in one direction. So what I'd like to
do is bend the legs out just a little bit like that. And you can actually
look inside the LED and see there's a different
shape and a different size to the different legs. So the two smaller pieces
are connected to the longer legs, that's the
positive side, so and these are the
negative sides here. And we can always
double-check that by straightening the
legs back out again if we want to just get a sense
for which one's longer. And the longer leg is again
connected to that littler piece of material on the
inside So let's go like that and like that. So let's make this
center positive. And we can do that just by
twisting these wires together, or these legs
together, like this. Now, in order for the
LEDs to function properly, they have to have resistors. We need resistors,
because otherwise the LEDs will draw too much
current from the batteries and they'll burn out. So we're going to
take a resistor and wind it around
the negative leg. The resistors can technically
go on the positive or the negative. There we go. And we'll do the same
thing on this side here. All right. So we've got a lot of pieces
that are connected there. And now remember,
we've got-- oh, looks like we've got our negative
from our battery is here, and it looks like the
positive may have come off. So we can add that back. Let's go ahead and
put our antennas on. So we're going to bend
our paper clips out. We'll do that in--
actually, let's do the antennas in just a second. Let's finish the LED eyes first. So we're going to
take the red wire, and that's going to be the
positive or the center wire. And you just need to trim
off just a little bit. There we go. We're twisting that
wire around the center, because that's going
to be the positive. And so the negative wires
will connect to the negative. So this switch is
going to let us turn our LED allies on and off. But we have a
disconnected wire here. It looks like we need to
reconnect the positive to that there. And we don't really need
it to be quite this long, so we're going to trim it down. So we need to do
a red wire there, and we don't have it right now
so we're going to reconnect it. And we do have a little
stub that's sticking up, so we can just-- oh. You can hear it's
bumping the switches and it's turning on and off. So once we've got
the red wire there, we can go ahead and
solder that in place. And you can see it
looks like we've got a pretty good
connection to our positive. So in order for this switch
to turn on and off our LED eyes-- zoom out a
little bit here. There we go. In order for this switch to
turn on and off our LED eyes, we need to connect
it from the negative through this to the positive. And before we do
that, let's go ahead and put some solder
on the connections here to make sure that they
don't come apart on our LEDs. And you can actually see
the solder wick up and down between the wires. So we need to connect
another wire here to these. So let's see, let's make that
another-- we'll make that a white wire. And let's take off
just a little bit. There we go. And we're going to twist the
two tails of this together like this, of the
resistors together there. And it's important that
the wires stay separated, so we may put some tape over
that, some electrical tape here to just keep
everything separate, because obviously if the
positive and the negative touch it's going to short. So let's go ahead and see
where we can wire this up. There we go. And we want to make sure we have
that solid, physical connection before we connect
it with solder. All right. Here we go. There it goes.