- [Instructor] In the
last video, we started with the story of the
Patriarchs in Genesis. How Abraham settles his people in Canaan, but eventually they get enslaved in Egypt. According to the Old Testament,
that enslavement lasts for over 500 years until we
have the emergence of Moses whom we also spoke
about in the last video. The next four books of the
Hebrew Bible which are often given authorship to Moses. These really talk about Moses
freeing the Jewish people from enslavement,
getting the Commandments, the Law, from God, and
eventually bringing the people so that they can resettle back in Canaan. As I mentioned in the last
video, these first five books of the Hebrew Bible,
also the first five books of the Christian Old
Testament, they are referred to as the Torah, and they are
given authorship to Moses although historians are doubtful of that. Even the historicity to
the degree to which these are historical characters
are significantly debated. We have the Jewish people,
according to Biblical accounts, now in Canaan. As we go into the rest of
this video, we're getting into more of a historical period
with the first significant kings of the Israelites. Now we're getting into
the first millennium BCE. The people, the Israelites,
are settled in Canaan. In the 11th century, BCE you
have King Saul comes to power. He's considered to be the
first significant king, or the first king really
of a united kingdom of Israel and Judah. This is King Saul. He is then succeeded by King
David who is his son-in-law. It was a very continuous succession. David is considered a significant figure in Judaism and Christianity and Islam. He's considered a warrior,
poet, philosopher. He really strengthens and
really unifies the kingdom. He's succeeded by his son, King Solomon. King Solomon is famous in
Biblical accounts for his wisdom. He's also known for creating
the First Temple in Jerusalem. As we will see, this
First Temple in Jerusalem, the way that I have marked
it off on this timeline, the green is periods according
to Biblical accounts, then later according to
historical accounts as well. When the Jewish people were
for the most part not in Canaan where they were in captivity,
or they were being enslaved. They were in exile some place else. The white that I show here, this is the enslavement in Egypt, this is going to be the
Babylonian captivity that we're going to talk about shortly. Then the white, this is
when we have the existence of the temples in Jerusalem. The First Temple in Jerusalem,
this is a depiction of it, was built by Solomon. Now the unified kingdoms Judah
and Israel don't last beyond these three kings. Shortly thereafter, it gets
fragmented into two kingdoms. The kingdom of Judah and
the kingdom of Israel. The kingdom of Israel
is going to be overrun by the Neo-Assyrians in 722
when they refuse to pay tribute to the Neo-Assyrian king. The kingdom of Judah essentially
becomes a client-state of the Assyrians. It's important to keep
in mind even though these are called kingdoms for
most of this history, they are client-states to larger powers whether it's the
Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Egyptians, the Seleucid. They keep being client-states. They also have some degree
of autonomy which is why they are called kingdoms. In 722, you have the kingdom
of Israel being overrun and many of the Jewish people
having to go into exile and being held captive
by the Neo-Assyrians. Then as we get into the 6th century BCE, you have the famous Babylonian Conquest, The Neo-Babylonian Conquest
of Nebuchadnezzar the Second, who conquers Judah. Once again, this is really a side battle between the Neo-Babylonians
and the Egyptians, and we talk about that in other videos. That takes us to the
Babylonian captivates. This is a picture here of Jerusalem, and maybe as equally important,
that First Temple of Solomon being destroyed and the
Jewish people being taken into captivity where they are taken from Jerusalem to Babylon. They're held in captivity, a
significant fraction of them are held in captivity, in
Babylon from this period from around 597, 586 BCE
until Babylon is conquered by Cyrus the Great, conquered
by the Achaemenid Persians that we talk about in another video. Once again, the end of the
captivity is really a side effect of larger battles and conquests going on. But Cyrus the Great frees
the Jewish people in 538 BCE. This is the end of the
Babylonian captivity. He resettles them back in
Jerusalem, and he and his successors assist in the rebuilding of the temple. Then you have the Second
Temple of Jerusalem. You often will hear Second Temple Judaism because this is the period
now where the Jewish people are resettled in Jerusalem. They are rebuilding that
Second Temple that a lot of the Old Testament
takes its modern form. Now this is going to last
for several hundred years. As I mentioned the kingdom
of Judea is a client-state of all of these various empires. It eventually becomes a
client-state of the Roman Empire as we get into the end of
the first millennium BCE. As we get to 70 CE, so this
is shortly after the time of Jesus, you have the
first Jewish-Roman War sometimes referred to
as the Jewish Revolt. In that, the Romans
destroy the Second Temple. This is really significant,
the Second Temple as we mentioned it starts getting rebuilt at the end of the captivity and famously gets really, nicely constructed as we get into the First Century BCE. Then in 70 CE, Jerusalem
is destroyed again. This time by the Romans. This is the beginning
of the Jewish Diaspora where they are exiled for,
now we're talking thousands of years, from Rome. They spread through the Roman
Empire and other empires, and we talk more about
that in other videos. This is a significant thing
because now the Jewish people are for the most part dispersed. They don't have a temple, and
you don't see a significant resettlement of the Jewish
people into this area until we get to the 20th century.