I think the real reason
I got interested in astrophysics was
to understand the Big Bang. That was the first really profound question
that I realized was answerable, at least in principle,
through mathematics and through
scientific observations and that kind of discovery, that you could sit there
with your pen and paper and then bring it
to an observer and say, "These are the list
of possibilities that we've predicted
for the Universe." And can you discriminate what's
true from what's not true by actually
looking at the cosmos? And today, we live
in a time where cosmology, the study of the early
Universe, is very precise in terms of what we know
about the very early Universe, the first few minutes
after the Universe began and what we know about the evolution
of the Universe since. And we're still surrounded
in this bath of light that's left over from
the Big Bang. It's cooler now
because it's been... the Universe has been expanding
in the 14 billion years since and it's cooled down
but it's there. It's everywhere around us. And we see galaxies are all moving away
from other galaxies, so it's as though the space
between them is stretching. And that's evidence
that the Universe continues to expand
after the initial Big Bang. And yet, there are
really profound questions that we can't answer
that I study, like, "What happened in the
very first moment?" And, "Was there really nothing and then instantaneously
something?" And, "When did that happen
and why did that happen? Why did the Universe suddenly
burst into existence?" Or, "Is that story just wrong?
Are we just confused about that? Is it really the case
that the Universe existed?" It just looked very different and a small patch of space
itself began to expand and grow and evolve and that that's
what we mean by the Big Bang, this moment when a little tiny
piece of a greater megaverse or multiverse began
to expand into our Universe, our observable history. And so, these are deep questions
that we're still wrestling with and we don't yet know
how to ask for evidence as to which one of these
possibilities is true and I just hope that
sometime in my, you know, scientific career
in my lifetime, that we'll figure out
a way to discriminate between these possibilities by actually looking at
the Universe that's out there.