- [Voiceover] We're already looked at Faraday's law in some detail. It showed us that if we have some loop of conductor and we have a change in magnetic flux over
time through the surface defined by that loop, it's going to induce an EMF through that loop which will cause a current to start to
circulate through that loop and that current, of
course, will be dependent on the actual resistance of the conductor. And there's many ways
that we've already seen of having a change in magnetic flux. One, you can have a change
in the magnetic field. It could be a change in its magnitude and, or it's orientation. You could have a change in the shape of the actual loop of conductor. If its area increases or decreases, that will change the flux. Remember, the flux is just your, the component of the magnetic field that is perpendicular to the surface. If you took the average of that times the area of the surface. And then the other way that we're going to study in this video is
inducing an electromotive force by changing it, not the shape of the loop and not the magnetic field but by changing the orientation of the loop. And in particular, we're
going to have the loop rotate. So let's think about this.
So I have this loop here. It's connected to this axle
and I'm going to rotate it in a, I'm going to rotate
it in a clockwise direction through this constant magnetic field. You can see it's constant. All of the magnetic field vectors I've just sampled'em at
different points in the field. They're all pointing straight
up and I've drawn them so that they all have the same magnitude. Now we'd appreciate is as we rotate this, the angle between the magnetic field and the surface is changing
and right from this point, as we rotated this clockwise direction, the component of the magnetic field that is perpendicular to the
surface is going to increase. Now what am I talking about? Well, let's look at it
from this point of view. Let's look at it from the point of view of the actual loop of wire,
so from this point of view the magnetic field is at some angle. I can draw that angle here
so, you know, whatever angle, it's a little hard to see,
whatever angle this is, we could say that is that angle here and as we rotate the
entire loop, it's attached to some type of an axle here,
in a clockwise direction. What is going to happen to this angle? Well, after let's say delta
T, let's say we're just rotating it a constant
rate, we're going to have the magnetic, so after
we've rotated a little bit, the magnetic field of vector is going to look something like that. So it's the component
that is perpendicular to the surface was what
we care about for flux, it's going to go from being
like this, it's gonna go from being like that to going to being, to being like this, to being like this. So at least for this
point of the rotation, for this point of the rotation till we get to the flat, until we
get to the flat point, until we have our loop
being completely flat, the component of our magnetic field that is perpendicular is going to increase which is going to have,
so we're going to have an increase in flux over that time. So if we have an increase
in flux over that time as we rotate up, at least
until we get to the flat point, what is going to happen? Well, we're going to induce a current and then we just have to think about what is the orientation of the current? So we want to have a current that will induce a magnetic field that will go against the change
in flux so the current should induce a magnetic field that is, if our flux, at least for
that part of the rotation is increasing in the upwards direction, if we're from the point
of view of this loop, then we need to create a magnetic field that is acting against that. So magnetic field that
is acting against that or we need to, we're
ready to induce a current that induces a magnetic field that acts against that change in flux. So, how do I, what type of current would induce a magnetic field like that? So I'll just use the
right-hand rule, my fingers would go in the direction of these, of the magnetic field, so my fingers and I have to use my right hand, so my fingers are gonna
go in that direction, so my right hand, my thumb, my thumb would go in this direction. So that is going to be the direction of the current that is induced. So the whole point of me showing you this, is that there's multiple ways to have a change in magnetic flux and there's multiple ways to induce a current. And this one is particularly interesting because it lets you or we
can start to think about, wow, I could turn, I could
turn a mechanical rotation into an induced current and
this is, this basic principle although they wouldn't use
such a simple loop like this, is exactly how electric generators work. They're actually, in some ways, the reverse of an electric motor. An electric motor has a current that causes something to rotate. Here, we're having something rotate causing a current to
form and that's actually what we have happening when you look at something like windmills or when you look at hydroelectric generators. Right over here, this windmill, the wind is going to cause these
blades to turn around and then inside, inside
of this little place right over here, you're going
to have a more fancy version of this rotating which is
going to induce a current. The magnetic field isn't
going to be exactly like this. It's going to be a more
sophisticated mechanism but it's the same underlying principle. It's just Faraday's law at work. Same thing with hydroelectric generator, you're using the potential energy of the flowing water to turn an axle and then that helps us
generate electricity by the exact same principle.