Hi, I'm John Green. Welcome to Crash Course
Big History. Today we're going to look
at the modern revolution. Mr. Green, Mr. Green! But what does modern even mean? I mean, I know
that fax machines and Super Nintendo are modern,
but, like, people used to think that toilets that
flushed were modern. That's actually a pretty
perceptive question, me from the past. So, if we're going
to talk about modernity, we should probably
define modernity. But first, I have great news. There is a future me
from the past where video games are so much
better than Super Nintendo. In fact, this machine
plays 24,000 games and it's in the office
of future you. What were we talking about? Oh, right, modernity. So, some historians date the
beginning of the modern era with the beginnings of the
Industrial Revolution in the 19th century. Some date it to the French
Revolution in 1789. Some push it further back to 16th and 17th century
European colonialism. And some date modernity
with the European Renaissance and call anything past the
year 1500 "early modern." But through aBig Historylens,
all of these are just signs of acceleration in human
collective learning, which was already underway
and took its first tiny steps in East Africa
250,000 years ago. Then again, it would be silly to call the first human foragers
"early-early-early modern." So for the purposes
of today, let's say: With an acknowledgment that it's
all a little bit arbitrary. And I know what
you're wondering, but no, 1750 was several decades before the first
flushing toilets. So last week, we looked
at how collective learning-- which relies on population
numbers and connectivity to produce new ideas--
grew by leaps and bounds with the introduction
of agriculture. By the year 1400,
the human population had advanced magnificently,
but the world was still divided into four isolated world zones:
the Americas, Australasia, the Pacific, and Afro-Eurasia. From aBig Historyperspective, what makes the European
explorations worthy of a place in an episode
called "Modern Revolution" is that they eventually
united all four world zones into a global system. But why did the Europeans feel
so motivated to expand? Well, a lot of reasons. One, Ottoman dominance of
overland trade routes with Asia, particularly after the conquest
of Constantinople in 1453, made Europeans seek alternative
routes to the populace and rich lands of the East. Two, European states were fairly
small compared to some of the vast empires of Asia
and needed to compete for more resources to fuel
their almost-constant wars. And three, the fruits
of exploration undoubtedly had
positive effects, whether it be the many
advanced inventions and consumer goods
imported from China or the spices of India
and Indonesia, or crops from the Americas. That last one should
not be underestimated. Crops like the potato--
which earned the nickname "ready-made bread" because
it was easy to prepare-- combined with maize
and squashes and tomatoes and various yams
allowed farms in Europe to support more people. This was also good for Asia, where those crops were
introduced in the 17th century. And let us not forget about
the vast amounts of silver that the Spanish "acquired"
from the Americas or the many cotton,
tobacco, and sugar farms that Europeans bolstered
their economies with. The unification
of the world zones also had many,
many negative effects. For instance, it was terrible
for people who worked on those cotton and tobacco
and sugar farms. Europeans increasingly
relied on African slaves, the first of whom were granted
to the Portuguese by African rulers, and then,
you know, several centuries of horror ensued with
an incomprehensible number of African slaves dying
in the appalling conditions of the Atlantic crossing. Life was also pretty miserable for the slaves that
survived the journey and generations of
their descendents. Also, because Afro-Eurasia
was a modestly connected thriving cesspool of disease, Europeans had developed
many immunities. When they started arriving in
the previously isolated Americas in the late 1400s and 1500s,
the indigenous inhabitants had no immunity
to those diseases. This resulted in one of
the most horrific events in human history. A cocktail of various European
diseases, most notably smallpox, killed off an estimated
50 million people in the Americas in little
over a century. A similar tragedy played
itself out in Australia when Europeans started arriving
there in the 18th century. Now, along with all this
horrific stuff, the unification of the world
zones was, nevertheless, a good thing
for collective learning, which would eventually prove
our salvation in many ways. Which is why people can now look
at this on their smart phone. Anyway, the unification
of the world zones did not in itself lead to a breakthrough in the way humans harvested
matter and energy. The last major shift
happened with the arrival of agriculture
10,000 years prior. The colonizing European
societies of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries
remained agrarian. But the explorations did allow
for a network of exchange that eventually did lead
to a major breakthrough in how humans harnessed more
energy and produced more and more cultural complexity: The Industrial Revolution
began in Great Britain, as they'll be happy to tell you,
in the 18th century. But it was a global revolution
involving collective learning shared across the global system. But a number of innovations
that kickstarted industry originated in Britain,
like the more intensified use of steam engines or the use
of coke to refine metal. Not that Coke--
yeah, that coke. Also, they invented
many textile machines and Britain had lots of coal and
it was relatively easy to mine. Thank you, trees
that died hundreds of millions of years ago. We're going to turn you
into industry. And smog. But all those
British breakthroughs wouldn't have been possible
without a huge global network of trade that supplied raw
materials like cotton and that opened new markets where Britain could
sell its goods. And it wouldn't have been
possible to expand that network of trade in the first place
without gun powder and the compass, which
both came from China. The methods of
porcelain manufacture that were important to the
Industrial Revolution in Britain also came
from China via Germany. And the improved methods
of farming, which freed up many British
farm workers for industrial wage labor
in the cities came from Flanders
in the Netherlands. Early designs for steam engines
came from 18th century France, and much of the designs for
these machines depended on mathematics preserved
and transmitted by Islamic and Hindu
civilizations. So up until the end
of the 18th century, virtually all production in
human history was propelled by human or animal muscle power,
or else by wind and water power. But it turned out the coal
and oil had stored energy from the sun that had
built up over hundreds of millions of years. And using those resources
dramatically increased the energy that
humans could harness. Huge numbers of goods could
be produced by factories at relatively low prices which
meant that over many decades, goods that had previously
been seen as luxuries by common people were suddenly
viewed as necessities. By the 1900s, most Europeans
enjoyed a standard of living higher than the kings
of the Middle Ages. Coal and oil also allowed
mechanization of agriculture, which raised the carrying
capacity, increasing the population. And new modes of connectivity
beginning with the telegraph, and then later, the telephone, increasingly bound the human
species together, allowing for swift and rapid
exchange of ideas. For 250,000 years, if I wanted
to tell someone who lived 100 miles away
from me something, it took me days to do so. For the last 100 years,
it's taken me seconds. Because a slight tweak
in modes of production in the 18th century
and the adoption of fossil fuels lead
to an explosion of productivity and invention
in the 1800s and 1900s, people often compare the
Industrial Revolution to the Cambrian explosion
about 540 million years ago. Remember: In the Cambrian explosion,
that evolutionary change was biological. In the Industrial Revolution,
that increased pace of change was cultural. Consider bike design. In the 1800s, there were many,
many different designs for bikes, some of which look
amazingly, terrifyingly unsafe. In the beginning of
innovations for bicycles, a huge number of designs filled
all of the available niches. Eventually, those designs
started competing with each other
and a few forms won out. You've got the road bike and the
mountain bike and the BMX bike. Just a little bit different
variations of the same thing. Another example is the adaptive
radiation of electronics. Take a look at all the stuff
you needed in the 1980s to do what your average cell
phone can do today. And that was only
a few decades ago. Many new ideas sparked an
increase in the human standard of living and the
complexity of societies in tons of different ways. The explosion of
cultural evolution that started 200 years ago
has yet to cease. The Cambrian explosion went on
for millions of years. The Agricultural
Revolution proceeded for thousands of years. We're still right in the middle
of the modern revolution-- maybe only at the beginning. The huge shift in human
activity and a rise in complexity may continue long after our grandchildren's
lifetimes. That is, so long as we don't
do something stupid, which, you know,
withhomo sapiens, is always a distinct
possibility. And let's not forget about
the rise in complexity that's been happening
since the beginning of the universe 13.8
billion years ago. A star is essentially a pile
of hydrogen and helium. It's extremely simple. By comparison, a brain that
arose via biological evolution is an intricate network
of billions of connections and building blocks. Industrial society is an immense
whirring global network of millions upon millions of
brains more closely connected than ever before. The products of this society
raised complexity even further. Bottom line is this, if the
first part of this series, which looked at the vastness
of the universe, made you feel insignificant,
just remember that now at the tremendous heights
of technological progress, humanity is, in terms of
networks and building blocks: And there's currently no end
to the potential for rising complexity in sight. This brings us to a
long-standing historical question: why did the Industrial
Revolution happen in Britain? Great Britain was certainly
uncommonly well positioned. That said, so was China. So why didn't the
Industrial Revolution happen in, say, Song Dynasty China between the 10th
and 13th centuries? So, we know: And China has had both
for a long time. The medieval Chinese had
much more advanced agricultural methods
than Europe. They paid attention to weeding
and growing crops in rows and frequently used
tools like the seed drill. And they were doing
it all centuries before that stuff was even
heard of in Europe. In the 900s, the spread
of wet rice farming in southern China raised the
carrying capacity even further because rice fields simply
produce more food. They are more efficient. Also, rice is easier to prepare than the laborious
European process of turning wheat into bread. So during the 10th
and 11th centuries, the Chinese population increased
from about 50 or 60 million to about 120 million. That's a lot of new innovators. So many, in fact,
that Song China came close to having a modern
revolution of its own. I mean, coal was used
to manufacture iron. Production increased from 19,000
metric tons per year around 900 CE to 113,000
metric tons by 1200 CE. The Song Dynasty was the first
to invent and harness the power of gunpowder, and then later
in the 15th century, Zheng He conducted overseas
explorations decades before Columbus. Textile production showed
the first ever signs of mechanization in ways similar
to the European spinning jenny. But China had dry
coal while the British needed to pump water out
of their coal mines in order to mine coal,
which led the British to build steam engines. So why didn't the modern
revolution start in China around 1000 CE? Well, it might have been the
cultural and political climate and the shift away from
innovation and commerce at the end of Song
China in 1279. Possibly because they hadn't
united the world zones in a network of trade and
unified collective learning. And possibly because
the right combination of cultural innovations required to launch a
Cambrian-style explosion of growth just didn't happen. The point is
that collective learning is such a powerful force that, from the explosion
of the world population from only six million people
10,000 years ago to the 954 million by the end
of the Agrarian Era, the right combination
of ideas that lead to the industrial explosion might have happened
almost anywhere. So long as there are brains
to think and exchange ideas, so long as there are energy
flows on the earth... The modern revolution
was accompanied by explosive growth
in human population. It took 250,000
years for humanity to achieve its
first billion people. By 1900, the world's population
was 1.6 billion. Today there are over 7 billion
potential innovators who are now connected by the
lightning speed of the internet, and collective learning
is more powerful than ever. Humans now have
unprecedented control and power over the
Earth's biosphere which has prompted some
scientists and scholars to claim that
the Holocene is over and we now stand on the
threshold of a new era, the Anthropocene. During this age, we may continue
to raise complexity in our little pocket of the
universe to wondrous new levels, hopefully to the growing benefit
of all humans rather than just
a privileged few. Thanks to collective learning,
our potential is awesome. Unless, that is, we hit a wall, like agrarian societies did
every few centuries when their population growth
outstripped their rates of agricultural innovation. We are now in an era
of immense danger where the modern global
system of humanity might exhaust the
resources of the earth in the same way that
agricultural societies often exhausted the resources
of the field. More on that next time.