- [Instructor] In this video, I want to give you a very brief overview of Dred Scott versus Sandford, a Supreme Court decision made in 1857 that had major consequences
on the definition of citizenship in the United States. This case was tied up with so many of the questions and problems that plagued America at this
time, particularly slavery and the westward expansion of the nation, that it's really easy to go far down into the rabbit hole on this one. But I'm gonna try to restrain myself and just give you the
basics you need to know to understand what happened in the case and why it's important. If you do wanna learn more
about the Dred Scott case, we have a much more in-depth
video on the subject that I'll link to in the description. Okay, so let me set the scene for you. In the mid-1800s, the U.S.
government had been trying to balance the desires
and the political power of the slave-owning southern states and the free northern states for decades. They kept making compromises
to keep the union from falling apart. And one of these was the
Missouri Compromise of 1820. The geography of this is important. So let's take a look at a map
of North America at the time. So here, you can see the
free states and territories of the north in green, and
the slave-owning states and territories in blue. In 1820, the U.S. government
agreed that to maintain the balance of power between
slave and free states, as new states entered the
union from western lands, new states below this
36 30' line of latitude would be slave states, and
above it would be free states. Missouri was the exception,
the last slave state to be admitted above that line. Now this compromise worked to
stave off political disunion for 30 years. But by the 1850s, when a
whole bunch of new states were set to enter the union
following Mexico's cession of this land to the United States, the compromise was starting to fall apart. Now what does all this have to do with a man named Dred Scott? Dred was an enslaved man who had been born into
slavery in Virginia. His enslaver eventually moved to Missouri and when Dred was about 30 years old, that man sold him to an
army doctor named Emerson. Emerson took Dred to Illinois, where Dred married his wife
Harriet, who was also enslaved. Emerson went back to Missouri but left Dred and Harriet in Illinois. He sold their services as
labors and kept the money that they made, which
was definitely illegal because he was practicing
slavery in a free state. After a year or so,
Emerson moved to Louisiana and married a woman named Eliza Sanford. And Emerson ordered Dred
and Harriet to join them. They took a steamboat down to Louisiana and while they were on that steamboat, Harriet gave birth to a baby girl, who was lawfully free
since she had been born in free territory. But the Emersons continued
to enslave all three of them. Eventually, Dr. Emerson died
and his wife Eliza Sanford became the sole owner of the Scott family, who had moved back to Missouri with her. In 1846, Dred tried to purchase
their freedom from her, but she refused. So he filed a freedom
suit in Missouri court. He pled that since he had
been taken into a free state, he should have been freed, and that his family was
being held unjustly. The case made its way through the courts over the course of several years. And in the meantime, Eliza
transferred ownership of the Scotts to her
brother, John Sanford. Since he lived in a different state, it became a federal case, and eventually it came
before the Supreme Court. So in 1857, the Supreme
Court led at that time by Chief Justice Roger
Taney issued its ruling in Dred Scott versus Sandford. You'll notice that Sandford
has an extra D in it in the title because it
was entered incorrectly in the records and never changed. Taney wrote the majority opinion and he came to two main conclusions. First, that Dred Scott couldn't bring suit in the Supreme Court because he was black and the descendant of enslaved Africans. Taney said that he believed the founders of the United States had never
intended for black people, enslaved or free, to
have citizenship rights. He made a distinction
between black people, who he believed the founders intended for perpetual servitude,
and indigenous people, who he thought had been treated as members of separate nations, and
therefore could immigrate to the United States if they wanted to. What does this tell you about how Taney was envisioning citizenship
and who was eligible to claim it? Now generally in cases when
the Supreme Court rules that it doesn't have
jurisdiction to hear a case, it stops there. It doesn't go on to give
any opinion about the merits of the case itself. But Taney bucked that
convention and went on to make a ruling about whether going
over that Missouri Compromise line from a slave state to a
free one made Dred Scott free. And he said that it didn't and that the whole Missouri Compromise was unconstitutional because it interfered with slave owners' property rights. Now it's worth mentioning here
that the Dred Scott decision is universally regarded as the
worst Supreme Court decision of all time. Not just because it was morally bankrupt, but also because it wasn't
based on sound reasoning. Taney definitely
cherry-picked his evidence about the founders never
intending black people to be citizens. For example, he left out
the fact that propertied black men could vote in five
of the original 13 states at the time of the founding. And that the founders
agreed to outlaw slavery in the Northwest Territory, both of which suggests
that there wasn't any kind of consensus among the
founders about the status of black people or the future
of slavery in the west. So what was the impact of this decision? The Supreme Court thought this
decision was going to settle the question about slavery
and its spread to the west for good, but it ended
up completely backfiring. Tensions between the north
and south started to reach a fever pitch after this decision. Abraham Lincoln started to
gain a national following because of his arguments
against this case. And eventually, civil war would erupt when Lincoln became president. After the Civil War, two new
amendments to the constitution would undue the Dred Scott decision. The 13th Amendment,
which abolished slavery, and the 14th Amendment, which
guaranteed citizenship rights for all people born in the United States. Although Dred Scott lost his
case, just two months later, he did get his freedom. He didn't get to enjoy it for long though, since he died just a year later. His wife Harriet and two
daughters did survive to see the end of slavery
and the 14th Amendment. And his great-great-grandchildren
are alive today.