[MUSIC PLAYING] DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: We're
in the Belvedere in Vienna, and we're looking at Gustav
Klimt's The Kiss from 1908. Probably the most famous
Klimt, and actually, I have to admit that I had
forgotten that the painting was almost a perfect square, because
I've seen in so many posters where it's been cut down
and made into a rectangle. DR: BETH HARRIS: It's
a very large painting and there's so much
gold that it's hard not to think of
a religious icon. And I think in
some ways Klimt was trying to create a modern
icon-- something that suggested a sense
of transcendence. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: Well there's
no question that the gold here makes you think of the
Byzantine tradition, maybe some of the
tile work at Ravenna. There is a way that the
patterning, especially around the faces, becomes
a kind of halo, as well. You have Klimt
building up the gold. He's got those gold
circles, they actually rise off the surface
of the canvas. DR: BETH HARRIS: And catch
the light, much the way that the gold was tooled
in medieval paintings. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER:
There is this sense of the male figure
of patterns that are direct of linear in
contrast to the curvilinear to the circles and
the ovals that we seen in the female form. But the point that you
made about the sense of the spiritual is so
powerful in this painting. I think we forget that that
darker gold ground seems so much as if the figures
are somehow being dissipated into the cosmos,
that there are so lost in the intensity,
the eternity of that kiss. DR: BETH HARRIS: And all
removed from the everyday world. I mean, we have to
remember that this is a time of incredible
modernization in Vienna. The city of Vienna has been
transformed in the previous 30 years into a modern city. Here Klimt is abstracting
a universal experience from the trauma,
the difficulties, the anxieties of everyday life. I think it's also important
to see this in relationship to Klimt's Beethoven Frieze,
where the figures confront evil forces-- these mythic
figures-- and in the end, there's this embrace, this
kiss, this emergence from evil into fulfillment and perfection. A minute ago, we were looking
at the painting by Egon Schiele called The Embrace, but
there there was so much more of a sense of the
physicality, of the body's. The way that the bodies
really aren't present here and are cloaked in
these decorative forms, reminds us how much Klimt,
although he was exploring this kind of sensuality, was
also disguising it, or covering it with a kind of
decorative patterning. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: And
that's absolutely right, with the exception of the faces. And here, this is where the
entire painting changes. The female figure is completely
full frontal but horizontal. So that there's this beautiful
sense of here passivity receiving that kiss,
but also a kind of deep interior feeling
with her eyes closed. Her fingers just
delicately touching his as he holds her head and his
neck reaches out and round, and you get a sense
of his physical power through the strength
of that neck, but also the intensity
of his desire. And of course,
they're both crowned. As on his head you can see
a wreath of leaves, on hers almost as if they were
the stars of the heavens. DR: BETH HARRIS:
Schiele gives us an image of a couple
that's electrified by kind of agitated outlines. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: Schiele
is showing us a kind of truth through the energy
of the moment. Whereas Klimt seems
to be reaching out to a truth that is for all
time, that is so aestheticized it feels as if it has a
degree of absolute permanence. [MUSIC PLAYING]