So in this video
we're going to install the switch you see in the
lower center of the screen. That's the on off
switch for Bit-zee. And the first thing we need
to do is just take the switch and push it through the hole
that we drilled out and marked in a previous video. So we're going to push
the switch through. And the hole's just about
the same size as the thread, so it's a pretty tight fit. Takes a little wiggling to
get the switch through there. So then what we're
going to do is we will put the nut
on the switch that will hold it in place. So we're just using
our screwdriver to slide it over the
end of the switch there. And we'll hand tighten that. It takes a little bit of doing. We gotta push the switch
through from the underside and then just turn
it a little bit. Once we've got the nut lined up
and on the shaft of the switch, we can tighten it down the
rest of the way with our-- It's taking it a little
bit of time there. And you'll probably have
a similar experience. It's tricky to get
that on, especially with all the other parts
that are around the bot. We're really close to the edge. But there we go,
we finally got it. OK, so when you take
your needle nose pliers, you can tighten it down
the rest of the way. All right, so now
what we're going to do is, we're going to solder
our wires to the switch. And we have the wire
coming from the battery. This is the positive wire
coming from the battery. And we're going to cut
it to the right length. And then we're going
to strip the end of it. And then we're going to
bend it in a U shape. And that U shape,
we can wrap around the contact on our switch. So we want to try and get
it in almost a perfect U. And once we have
in that shape, we can put it around the contact. And once it's
around the contact, we can use our needle nose
pliers to crimp it in place, and make sure that it's nice and
tight against that connection there. And then what we're going to
do is once the wire is firmly in place, we'll get
our soldering iron and we'll solder the wire
to the post in the switch. So what the switch
does is basically just stops the flow of electricity
by disconnecting the wires. OK, so we've
soldered that one on, and we'll solder another
wire on to the other side of the switch. The wire that's
on the other side will go directly to
our motor controller. And that's where the power
is going to come from. The power from our
batteries is going to go to the motor
controller, and the switch will allow us to
break that circuit and shut the Bit-zee bot off. OK, so we've routed
our power wires from underneath, up
through the holes, and over to the
motor controller. So now we're just stripping
the wire clean there. This is our positive
12 volt wire. And it's going to go to the
pin in our terminal block on the far right side. The terminal block
in the center there. And we're going to just-- we've
already loosened the screws, and we're going to feed
the wire into the pin. And then we'll tighten
the screw down on it to make sure that
it doesn't come out. So that is the wire that came
directly from our switch. And there's our tightening
down the terminal block there. The screw in the terminal block. So we have our
negative wire, which has come directly
from the battery. And we are going to run
that to the screw that is on the far left hand
side of the terminal block. That is our ground wire. And so we've stripped
the end off of that wire. And just push it in
underneath the screw there, in the left side
of the terminal block. And now we're going to
take our 22 gauge wire, and we're going to run 22
gauge wire into the ground. This will allow us to
ground other components on the board using
the motor controller as our sort of junction box. So we're going to
push our 22 gauge wire into the same terminal
block as our 18 gauge wire from our battery. And it's not a lot
of room in there, but we're going to
try and slide it in. Sometimes you have to move one
of the wires out of the way to get the other one in. And our needle nose pliers can
help push the wires into place. And then we'll take
our screwdriver again and tighten down
that terminal block to make sure the
wires won't come out. And then we're going
to take a 22 gauge wire and run it to the center of
that terminal block, which is going to provide us five
volts out that we can use to power our digital
camera and our Arduino and other components
on our board. So we'll wire that to our bread
board in the upcoming videos.