So we're going to
take our paper clip, and I'm going to bend
it out like this. Actually it's OK if
it's curved still like that on the end like that. And we only need it to be
about that long on the ends. So we'll cut off the
excess like that. And we want to--
we're going to bend it so that it goes like this. So that it goes-- actually we
want it to go about like that. And then we're going to
straighten it out, like this. Like that. And then in order for
the motors to fit on it, we're going to bend it
down like this on one side. You kind of want
to make sure it's nice and symmetrical like that. OK, so let's get these
two wires out of our way. And in order to get
this to work just right, maybe put a little bit
more of a bend in that. OK. We'll put some hot glue
right there in the middle. Now it's going to take a while
for this hot glue to cool. There's a fair
amount of glue there. And it's sitting on top of
plastic which is an insulator. So it's not going
to cool very fast. But you'll know that
the hot glue is cool once it turns a milky color. But it's important to
keep everything steady while the hot glue is cooling. Otherwise, it
won't hold as well. If you balance it
right, it should be OK. Once the hot glue
is cooled, you can go ahead and attach your motors. So you want to make
sure you attach the motors with the contacts,
the copper contacts, facing up. And the motors are going to sit
on the paper clip like this. And so it's important
that you get the motor kind of perpendicular
to the battery holder. And we want to make sure
that that paper clip is in good contact with
the back of the motor there, because
that's what's going to hold the motor in place. It's easy for these
things to move around. So make sure you put hot glue
on both sides of the paper clip. And the good thing about the
hot glue in this situation is that it will dry a lot
quicker than the hot glue when it was on top of
the battery holder, because that metal
will act as a heat sink, the metal of the motor. And you want to do the same
exact thing for the other side. Once the glue is
dry on the motors, you can bend them
down so that they become the feet of the
little bot-- like that. So they should bend
down far enough so that the bot is at a
bit of a slope this way. So this end is a little
higher than this end. And they should be about
equal across from each other.