So to be able to do some
hardware prototyping on our Bit-zee bot, we're
going to put the center section of a bread
board on top of Arduino. We need to connect
it to something so we're looking at
maybe using a wine cork to put between the
surface mount components here on the Arduino board. The cork is non-conductive
and it's pretty easy to cut so I figured
that might be a good way to connect the board. And so we need to find
the height of our power connector and our USB connector. And they happen to
be the same height. So we can cut our wine cork
down to the right size. And we're just trimming
the rough edge off here with a hacksaw blade. And I actually
should be doing that on top of a scrap piece of wood
so we'll move it to there just so we don't scar
up the table when we get to the bottom of it. And you can see the cut's
not perfectly straight. So in order to fix
that, we're going to cut the cork just
a little bit larger than we need it to be. And it's close to two
centimeters there. And then we're going
to take the cork and file it down and
get it nice and smooth. And the file will let us take
off just a little bit at a time so we can get it just
the exact right height. Now that we have the
cork the right size, we're going to squeeze
out a blob of hot glue that's about the size of a dime. And we're going to push our
cork down on the center of it. And so that way
the cork is going to be able to support
our bread board. Now when I did this, I realized
that the cork was to far over and it's actually obscuring
some of the numbers. It's covering over
some of the numbers that I need to be able to see. So I was able to trim a little
bit of it off with the break off blade knife. And apparently cutting
through the grain structure of the cork in this
direction works pretty well with the knife. So in order to get it
lined up just right, just trimming off the
edge there to make it just a little cleaner. And then there's a little bit
of hot glue left at the bottom. So to clean that
off, I'm just going to score it and then take a
screwdriver and peel it up. So now we have our connection. And it looks like
our bread board will be pretty well supported. And there's a double-stick tape
on the back of the bread board that's got a paper coating
over the top of it. So we need to remove that
paper coating or paper cover to expose the
double-stick tape and allow us to stick
the bread board down. So we're just removing that
coating, the paper coating or paper covering. We're only removing it
in the sections where we know it's going to touch
the cork, the USB connector, and the power adapter connector. And once we have that lined up,
we'll just take our bread board and press it into place. And this is going to allow us to
change out different components like resistors and
capacitors and transistors and allow us to do some
different configurations and experiments with
the Bit-zee bot.