- [Narrator] Fueled by sunlight and rain, tropical rainforests are
some of the most diverse, energy-rich ecosystems on the planet. A single hectare of rainforest, like this one in Peru, may
contain over 50,000 species, housing a vast, interactive network of plants, animals, and insects. At the California Academy of Sciences, our mission is to explore, explain, and sustain tropical rainforests. Scientists, like Michelle Trautwein, are experts in these efforts, conducting research to
help us better understand the structure and diversity
of rainforest ecosystems. Entering a tropical rainforest, we find vertical layers of life, each with its own unique
structure and composition. The forest floor receives
very little sunlight. It is a hot, humid place where animals, like leafcutter ants, spend
their time foraging for food. Just above the floor is
a thick layer of shrubs, small trees, and flowering plants. Here in the rainforest understory, we find amphibians, like
the poison dart frog, whose toxic skin protects
it from predators. Rising higher, we find a bright, connected layer of tree
branches and leaves. The canopy contains a
wide variety of species, including squirrel monkeys, who travel and feed in
large social groups. Breaking through, we
enter the emergent layer, an open space containing
only the highest treetop. Here we find camouflaged
insects called katydids, who feed on young, tender leaves. Now imagine you are a
biologist researching arthropod diversity in
the Peruvian rainforest. You and your team sample
each forest layer, recording the number of species
found and at what height. Looking over your field notes
now, what trends do you see? How do the layers differ
in species richness? Take a moment to pause the
video and examine the graph. (calm bell music) The canopy is believed to house over 70% of species
found in the rainforest, making in the most species-rich
of the four layers. To measure species diversity,
researchers like Michelle must take into account
both species richness, the number of different species, and species evenness, the
abundance of each species. Imagine you survey three
different rainforest communities and identify the following species at the following abundances. Looking at your field notes now, which community appears
to be most diverse? While each has the same number of species, Community B has greater evenness, a more balanced number of
individuals from each species. We recognize Community
B as being more diverse because of its high species richness and its high species evenness. Why is this important? More diverse ecological communities tend to be more stable
and resilient to change. This means a more diverse
tropical rainforest is better able to respond to disturbances, like deforestation and climate change. Even with these findings, there are still many unanswered questions
about tropical rainforests and the species that
inhabit them, such as: Why are tropical rainforests so diverse? Why does the canopy have
high species richness? You have the opportunity
to explore and explain these incredibly diverse ecosystems.