OK. So I took a part two of
the exact same camera. And I did it, to be
honest, because I took the first one apart to
identify the parts inside of it and had some issues
getting it back together because some of the
screws just were stripped, and it did not want
to go back together. And so I bought another
one and found out something kind of interesting. So this camera,
a lot of products go through different revisions
that don't necessarily show up in model numbers. So that means that
the manufacturer may have found a better
way or a less expensive way to produce something. Or it could be that they
just found a cheaper way to produce
something and were able to improve their margins. And so with this camera
being so low cost, I'm sure the margins are
of a great deal of interest to the manufacturer. If you look, this one says
version 3.8 and this one says version 3.3. So this is an older version. This version has an epoxy potted
central processing unit or CPU. And this one has just a
plastic cover over it. So the plastic cover may not be
as robust as the epoxy potting. I'm not sure, but it doesn't
look quite as stable. It would be harder to
mess up those wires. And when I pop
this off, the wires are clearly messed
up to the CPU there. And obviously, the boards
are totally different colors. I guess that lets
the manufacturer know that they are
different revisions. If you the flip the boards over,
you can take a look at the-- let me zoom in just
a little bit on this. You can see the
charge couple device or the light capturing
device is very different. So this one looks
larger, more robust. This one looks a lot smaller. So it appears that
what they've done this is a cost reduction,
probably a reason to change. Also, the onboard memory is
a different manufacturer. So it may be that this memory is
less expensive, the new memory. This board doesn't
need this capacitor. And so perhaps this
electrolytic capacitor was a cheaper way of storing
a charge during the photo process. And if you look at
the lenses here, this one's got a big
lens cover over it. And this one has no
lens cover over it. So that probably added cost. I don't believe that's
actually the lens. I think it's still
that tiny little thing that you see inside
this one here. But it looks bigger with that. And they probably just got
rid of it to reduce cost. So anyway, that's the difference
between one of the earlier iterations and one of
the later iterations. But as far as consumers go, you
wouldn't know any difference at all when you bought the
two cameras because they're virtually identical
on the outside.