  DAVID CHRISTIAN:
Imagine you're in a time machine and you've traveled back
four-and-a-half billion years. And what you're doing
is you're taking a stroll on the early Earth. Now, what would it be like and would you be having fun? Well, the answer
is I don't think you'd be having much fun. First, you'd be walking
on molten lava. Not nice. Secondly, you couldn't breathe because there's no oxygen. You'd be asphyxiating. And thirdly, you'd be ducking asteroids, meteorites that are crashing
into the early Earth; lots and lots of them. And fourth, you'd probably be
throwing up because of very high levels
of radiation. And if you stay there too long, your hair would start falling
out too. So, I don't think
you want to stay there too long. Why was the early Earth so hot? Because that's the main thing--
it was really, really hot. Now, you've already
got some clues as to why it was so hot and you might be able
to think this through. But let me give you
three of the main reasons. First, you remember
that supernova that blew up just before the solar system
was formed? That created huge amounts
of radioactive material and that radioactivity
generated a lot of heat. Today, a lot of it
has dissipated. So today's Earth is nothing
like as radioactive as it was four-and-a-half billion years
ago. Secondly, do you remember the
process of accretion? Really violent, lots of space debris crashing
into other space debris. Each collision with a meteorite
or an asteroid created huge amounts of heat. And the third problem-- the third problem is subtler
because it's pressure. Do you remember those clouds that the early stars
formed from? Well, as the clouds got denser, do you remember
the pressure increased and they got hotter? And the same thing happens
with the early Earth. As it accreted, it got larger, pressure built up,
and heat built up particularly at the center. So that's why the early
Earth was so hot. In fact, the early Earth
got so hot it melted, and that is really important. Because if it hadn't melted,
today's Earth would be very different
from the way it was. To get a sense of what happened
and why this was so important, let's imagine
a kind of absurd experiment. Okay. So you're going to put
some stuff in a sauce pan. You're going to put in
some coins. You're going to put in
some rice. You're going to put in
some plastic. Let's add a bit of mud. Let's put in some ice and you can chuck in one
or two other things. And now, we're going to heat
that stuff up to several thousand degrees. Don't stir, just let it simmer. Now, it's going to...
it's not going to taste good, but we may be able to learn
something from this. And what we'll see is that the whole
thing is going to melt. The heavy stuff,
such as the coins, are going to sink down
to the bottom, lighter stuff is going to rise
to the top, and some stuff
is going to evaporate and boil above the sauce pan. Now something very like this
seems to have happened to the early Earth. It melted and because it melted, it formed a series of layers and they give it
its structure today. Let's look at the
four main layers. The first is at the center. It's the core.
It's metallic. Nickel and iron--
above all, iron-- sank to the center of the Earth. And the fact that the center
of the Earth is full of metal is really important because this gave the Earth
its magnetic field, and the magnetic field deflects some of the sun's rays
that would be harmful to living creatures such as us. So that's the first layer,
the core. Secondly, lighter stuff--
lighter rocks-- float above the core and form a layer
that's called a mantle. Now, the mantle you can
think of as a sort of hot sludge of rocks. These rocks are so hot
they're sort of semi-molten and they're actually
moving around in convection currents
inside the mantle. And then at the very top, you have a layer
called the crust. Very light rocks such
as basalts and granites reached the top, they cool, they form this thin layer,
the crust. That's where we live. The crust is pushed around
by those convection currents from underneath. You can think of the crust
as a tiny, thin layer a bit like a sort of egg shell. And finally, the fourth layer,
the atmosphere. Some of the gassy stuff
bubbles up to the top, it evaporates. The very light gases
such as hydrogen disperse into space, but a lot of other gases
just hang around the Earth held by its
gravitational pull and that's how the Earth
acquired the structure it has today. All of this happened
about ten million years after the creation
of our solar system. Now, I want you to hop back
in that time machine. And what I want you to do
is to take off from your backyard and
hover over your hometown. And now, I want you to put the time machine
into fast motion so it's moving rapidly back
through time and you're going to see
something really weird. What you're going to see
is that the land is going to start buckling
and shaping... shaking and moving like
a huge monster. This looks weird to us
simply because we don't live long enough to see
that the Earth is in fact changing
all the time. Now, in fact, some scholars
began to notice this as early as the 16th century when they studied
the first world maps that were ever produced. Some of them noticed odd things like the fact that West Africa seems to fit well into Brazil. I mean, look at a modern map
and you'll see the same thing. In the early 20th century, a German meteorologist
called Alfred Wegener found lots of evidence to suggest that the continents
had in fact once been connected. For example, he found
very similar geological strata in West Africa and in Brazil. And during World War I,
he wrote a book arguing that once
all the continents on Earth had been united in a single
supercontinent that he called Pangaea after the Greek goddess Gaia,
for the Earth. Now, what did
the other geologists think of this great idea? They were not impressed. Here's the problem. Wegener came up
with heaps of evidence to show that the continents seemed once to have been linked. What he couldn't do was explain
how the continents moved around the Earth. So when they said, "Okay Alfred,
how do you tow a whole continent around the Earth?ﾔ He couldn't explain it. And as a result of that,
his great idea was ignored for almost 40 years. We saw when looking
at astronomy that quite often
new technologies can generate new evidence which changes our understanding
of the science, and something very like this
happened in geology. During World War II,
sonar technologies were developed to track
submarines. And after World War II,
some geologists used that technology to try
to map the ocean floor. And when they started
doing this, they found something
that really surprised them. Through many of the Earth's
oceans, they found huge chains of volcanoes. And what's happening
is that lava is coming out from the mantle. It's rising up,
it's forming mountains, and it's pushing apart
the old oceanic crust. In the center of the Atlantic
Ocean, for example, there's a huge chain
of these mountains. And what they're doing is they're pushing
the Atlantic apart. So the Atlantic is actually
getting wider and wider at about the speed
that your fingernails grow. Now, some geologists thought "Okay, does this mean
that the Earth as a whole is just getting
bigger and bigger and bigger like an inflating balloon?" But they soon realized
that elsewhere in the Earth, crust was going back
into the mantle, which balanced what was
happening in the Atlantic. Let me explain how it works. Now, to understand this,
you need to think of two basic types of crust. There's continental crust, which is the land
that we walk on, and then there's oceanic crust,
the land beneath the oceans. In general, continental crust
is lighter. It tends to be made of granites. Oceanic crust tends to be
heavier, made of basalts. Okay? Now once you've got that, think of two bits of crust
colliding-- continental and oceanic. What's going to happen? Well, what's going to happen is that the heavier oceanic
crust is going to dive beneath the continental crust. Now, think of this. It's grinding against
the continental crust. It's creating huge friction
and lots of heat and it melts part
of the continental crust and punches up whole mountain
chains. And that basically is how the
Andes mountain chain was formed. Mountains can also form when portions of continental
crust collide with each other. But this time,
because both portions have about the same density,
they don't dive beneath each other,
but they crumple up to form huge mountain chains. And that's basically how
the Himalayas were formed about 50 million years ago
when India crashed into the mainland of Asia. There's another type
of relationship between different parts
of crust. Sometimes, you get two bits
of crust that are moving in opposite directions
past each other. What happens is that
the friction holds them, but the pressure builds up
and then suddenly they slip. This is what's happening
along the San Andreas fault in California. It's that slippage
that creates earthquakes. Okay, these are the basic ideas of the modern theory
of plate tectonics. And the theory
of plate tectonics is the fundamental idea
of modern geology and Earth sciences, just as Big Bang cosmology
is the fundamental idea of modern astronomy. It explains a huge amount
about how the Earth works, just as Big Bang cosmology
explains how the universe works. It explains, for example,
why all around the Pacific you get a ring of volcanoes
and earthquakes. It explains why the Earth is
broken up into a series of plates like
a broken egg shell, and why it's around the edge of
those plates that you get violent activity such as volcanoes
and earthquakes. It explains how mountains form. It explains all the fundamental
features of our Earth, and also how the continents
move. It explains what Wegener
couldn't explain. So the theory of plate tectonics
is now the most fundamental idea in modern Earth sciences.