We've done a lot of
electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions. Let's look at the possibility
of a nucleophilic aromatic substitution. And so if we start it
here with bromobenzene and we add a
nucleophile, something like the hydroxide
anion right here. So negative 1 formal
charge, it could function as a nucleophile. And it would, of course,
attack the carbon that is bonded to
our halogen here. And so when the
nucleophile attacks here, if we're thinking about
an SN2 type mechanism, it's a concerted mechanism where
these electrons should kick off onto the bromine. So if this happens, we
would get our benzene ring and we would get now the OH has
substituted in for the bromine. And the bromine has left
in the form of an anion. So the bromide anion here, which
has a negative 1 formal charge and is relatively
stable on its own. So it's a decent leaving group. So the problem with this is
that when our nucleophile is attacking this
carbon right here, this is an SP2
hybridized carbon which is part of this benzene
ring, of course. And the benzene
ring is going to get in the way of the nucleophile
attack via an SN2 type mechanism. And so because of that
ring, because you're working with an SP2
hybridized carbon, the nucleophile can't attack
in the proper orientation. And so an SN2 mechanism
is not possible. So SN2 does not occur at
an SP2 hybridized carbon. And so this reaction
doesn't proceed this way. What about an SN1
type mechanism? So if we thought about
an SN1 type mechanism, we know the first step
in that is dissociation. So these electrons in here are
coming off onto the bromine. And so we go ahead and
draw our benzene ring. And since we took a bond
away from the carbon that's bonded to the
bromine, that would get a plus 1 formal
charge like that. And so we form a carbocation. The problem is this is a
very unstable carbocation. We can't really draw any
resonance structures for it. And so since it's an
unstable carbocation it's not likely to form. And so an SN1 type mechanism
is highly unlikely. It is actually possible if
you have an incredible leaving group. But for our purposes, we'll
say it's extremely unlikely. So SN2 is out. SN1 is out. And so you might
think that you can't do a nucleophilic
aromatic substitution. But as a matter of fact you
can, and let's take a look at the criteria
in order to do so. So your ring must have an
electron withdrawing group, so withdrawing some electron
density from the ring. We have that here, of course. This nitro group is
electron withdrawing. The ring must have
a leaving group, and we just saw how
our halogen here can act as a leaving group. The leaving group
is ortho or para to the electron
withdrawing group. Well in this case,
those two groups are both ortho to each other. So this molecule could
undergo nucleophilic aromatic substitution. And so let's think
about, once again, our hydroxide functioning
as the nucleophile. So we have our negatively
charged hydroxide anion functioning as a nucleophile,
attacking the carbon, once again, that's
bonded to our halogen. This time we're going to
move some electrons around. So these pi electrons are
going to move into here to form a double bond. And these electrons are going
to move out onto the oxygen. So let's go ahead
and show the result of all those electrons moving. So we have our ring. We have our pi electrons here. We have our bromine still
attached to the ring, so let's go ahead and put those
lone pairs of electrons on it. And now we have an OH attached
to our ring, too, like that. So let's put those lone
pairs of electrons on. Now our nitrogen is double
bonded to our ring like that. The nitrogen is still bonded
to an oxygen on the right. The oxygen on the
right still has a negative 1 the formal charge. And now the nitrogen is bonded
to an oxygen on the left, also with a negative 1
formal charge like that. The nitrogen itself has
a plus 1 formal charge. So let's see if we can
show the movement of all of those electrons here. And so if I show these
electrons in magenta on our hydroxide anion,
you could think about them as being this bond now. And these pi
electrons in here like that, these you could think
about moving out to here to form a pi bond
with the nitrogen. And then finally these
electrons right in here moved out onto the
oxygen on the left to give it negative
1 formal charge. And so the first step
in this mechanism is the addition of
the nucleophile. So let me go ahead
and write that, so it's the addition
step where we add our nucleophile to the ring. And when you do that you're
of course adding electrons to the ring. And that negative charge
that you're adding actually ends up on this oxygen
here, so this oxygen has a negative 1 formal charge. It's able to stabilize
that since it's very electronegative. And so the presence of your
electron withdrawing group withdraws some electron
density from the ring. It allows some of
that electron density to be temporarily stored on
your electron withdrawing group. And that stabilizes
this intermediate here. You can actually draw some
other resonance structures, but this is the one that
we're most concerned with, the one showing the negative
charge on the oxygen. So once again, this
electron withdrawing group is able to stabilize
that negative charge that was added to the
ring and it's only able to stabilize it because it
is ortho to the leaving group. And so in our next
step we're going to show the leaving
group leaving. So this is the elimination step. So the elimination
of the leaving group. And again, that nitro
group was temporarily holding onto some of
that negative charge and those electrons. And they're going to
move back into here which would push these
electrons back into here. And then these electrons would
kick off onto your bromine. And so we can go ahead and
show the final product now, where we have our benzene
ring and the bromine has left in the form
of the bromide anion. So we have an OH
attached to our ring. And now we have our
nitro group back the way it looked before with a negative
1 formal charge on this oxygen. And this oxygen over
here double bond to the nitrogen, the nitrogen
having a plus 1 formal charge. So the electrons in green
over here on this structure, so these electrons moved back
into here to form this bond. And the electrons in
blue moved back into here to re-form your ring this way. And we're done. We've seen that the OH has
substituted in for the halogen here. So this is called the addition
elimination mechanism. And you can see why. First you add your nucleophile
and then that electron density is temporarily stored in the
electron withdrawing group. And it comes off again
to eliminate your halogen like that. So that was an example of
a situation where the two groups are ortho to each other. Let's do one where the two
groups are para to each other. So let's look at this
next example here. And so once again
we have an electron withdrawing group,
our nitro group. We have a leaving
group, our halogen. And so therefore we can
perform nucleophilic aromatic substitution. And so I'm going to use the
same nucleophile as before. I'm going to use
hydroxide so we have a negative 1 formal charge. And our nucleophile
is going to attack, of course, the carbon that
is bonded to our leaving group, our halogen. Which would push these
electrons over to here. Which would push these
electrons over here. And then that pushes these
electrons off onto our oxygen once again. So let's go ahead and show
again all those electrons after they have moved here. So we have our bromine
still attached to our ring. Our OH is now attached
to our ring like that so it would have two lone
pairs of electrons on it. And we have some pi electrons
here, pi electrons here. Nitrogen is once again double
bonded to our ring now. It's bonded to this
oxygen on the left which has a negative 1 formal charge. And the oxygen on the right now
has a negative 1 formal charge like that, with this nitrogen
here being positively charged. So two negatively charged
oxygens and one positively charged nitrogen. And so once again this
is the addition step. The addition of the
nucleophile to the ring. And now that negative charge,
when we added some electrons to our ring, that
negative charge is partially residing
on this oxygen here. And so our electron
withdrawing group stabilizes this intermediate. The next step, of
course, is elimination. And so if these electrons
move back into here that would push these
electrons back into here. Which pushes these
electrons over to here. And then these electrons come
off onto our leaving group. And so the bromide
anion leaves, and we now have our OH has
substituted in for it. So we have our ring. We now have our OH on there. And we have, of course,
our nitro group. So over here, double bonded
to this oxygen, this nitrogen has a single bond to this oxygen
and negative 1 formal charge and a plus 1 formal
charge like that. And so this is an example of the
addition elimination mechanism where your electron
withdrawing group and your leaving group
our para to each other. If you tried to do this
where the two groups are meta to each other, you'll
see that it doesn't work. You can't show that electron
density out onto this oxygen. You can't show your electrons
moving around to do that. So it's only when
those groups are either ortho or
para to each other.