- This proton on ethanol has a pKa value of approximately 16, while this proton on
acetic acid has a pKa value of approximately five. Remember, the lower
the value for your pKa, the more acidic the proton. So with the lower pKa value, acetic acid is more acid than ethanol. We can explain why by looking
at the conjugate bases. If ethanol donates this proton,
the electrons in this bond, the electrons in magenta are
left behind on the oxygen. So let's draw in the conjugate base. This oxygen would have three
lone pairs of electrons, and one of those lone pairs
would be the electrons in magenta. That gives this oxygen a
negative one formal charge. Let's draw the conjugate
base for acetic acid. If acetic acid donates this proton, then the electrons in
magenta are left behind on the oxygen, so the
conjugate base would have a carbon double bonded to an oxygen here with two lone pairs of electrons. And then on the right we
would have another oxygen, this one with three lone
pairs, one of those lone pairs would be the electrons in magenta. So that gives this oxygen a
negative one formal charge. Let's compare our two conjugate bases. Both of them have a
negative charge an oxygen, so there must be some
other factor to stabilize a conjugate base, and
that factor is resonance. So for the conjugate base on the right, we can take those electrons in magenta, we can take these electrons here and we can move them in, and then we can kick
off these electrons on to the top oxygen. So let's draw the resulting
resonance structure. So we would have for our top oxygen we would now have three
lone pairs of electrons around the top oxygen,
giving that top oxygen a negative one formal charge. This oxygen would now have only two lone pairs of
electrons around it, and the electrons in
magenta move into here. And these pi electrons,
let me make them blue, moved off onto the top
oxygen to give the top oxygen a negative one formal charge. So the negative charge on this oxygen is not localized to this one oxygen, it's spread out, it's delocalized. So there's actually
some negative charge on this oxygen too. So remember, resonance
structures are not perfect. In reality, it's really
a hybrid of our two resonance structures. So the negative charge is
spread out or delocaliazed over two oxygens, and when you spread out a negative charge, that
has a stabilizing effect for the anion. So our conjugate base is
stabilized by resonance, and since our conjugate base is stabilized by resonance, that means
acetic acid is more likely to donate to this proton,
and that's why we see a lower pKa value. If we compare that to the conjugate base for ethanol, alright this is
called the ethoxide anion, alright we can't draw
a resonance structure, we can't delocalize that negative charge. That negative charge is stuck
on this one oxygen here, and that means this conjugate
base is not as stable, it's not stabilized by resonance. So that means ethanol is
not as likely to donate its proton, and that's why
we see a higher pKa value for ethanol. So when you're trying to figure
out a more acidic proton, draw the conjugate base
and look for resonance. Here we have an organic
compound, and our goal is to determine which is the more acidic proton. Is this the more acidic proton? Or is this the more acidic proton? So let's say a base comes
along and takes this top proton here. Well the electrons in this
bond in magenta will be left behind on this carbon
I just circled in magenta, so let's draw that conjugate base. We would have our ring, we would have this carbon double bonded to this oxygen, this oxygen
has two lone pairs of electrons on it, and
the electrons in magenta would remain on this carbon
right here in magenta which gives that carbon a
negative one formal charge. Don't forget that carbon
in magenta also has another hydrogen bonded to it,
but I'm not drawing it in on the conjugate base just
to make things easier to see. Let's say a base comes
along and takes this proton. So that would mean the
electrons in dark blue would remain behind on
this carbon in dark blue that I just circled, so let's
draw that conjugate base. So let me draw in our ring
here, and then this oxygen would have two lone
pairs of electrons on it. The electrons in dark blue
would end up on this carbon in dark blue which gives
that carbon in dark blue a negative one formal charge. Let me draw that in. Again remember, this
carbon also has a hydrogen bonded to it, but I'm not
gonna draw it in on the conjugate base because it
makes it easier for us to see. Which of those two conjugate
bases is the most stable? Well the top conjugate base
is stabilized by resonance, you could take these
electrons in magenta and you could move them in to form a double bond. Let's go ahead and show that,
the electrons in magenta moving here, now we kick
these electrons off on to the oxygen, so we would have now... When we draw our ring we'd
have a double bond here, and this oxygen would have
three lone pairs of electrons around it, giving it a
negative one formal charge. So the electrons in
magenta moved into here, and the electrons in, let's
make these light blue, electrons in light blue
moved off onto the oxygen to give the oxygen a
negative one formal charge. Now remember, oxygen
is more electronegative than carbon, and so this
oxygen here is better able to bear this negative charge, than this carbon in magenta over here. So this on the right, this
resonance structure actually contributes more to the overall hybrids, but our conjugate base is
stabilized by resonance. That's in contrast to this
conjugate base down here. We have a negative charge on this carbon, but that negative charge is localized to that carbon in dark blue right here. We can't draw any
resonance, we can't show any resonance stabilization. Which means that this
conjugate base is not as stable as what we drew
up here, which did have some resonance stabilization. And that means that we found our answer, the more acidic proton is the one that has the conjugate base that's
resonance stabilized. So this proton that's
next door to this carbon double bonded to the
oxygen that's on a carbon that's next door to this
carbon doubled to the oxygen, that is the acidic proton. And this is something that will
come up later in the course, it's very important to understand.