Hi, I'm Bob Bain. I'm here in beautiful Seattle. It's a lovely day
and I'm excited to be talking with you
about Big History. I'm a friend
of David Christian's, a longtime colleague. We've worked together
on many projects and we're going to work
together here on the Big History Project. Like you,
I'm going to be listening to David's talks
and David's lectures. Like you, I'm going to be
learning many new things. Big History is exciting for me because Big History
makes me think. It encourages me
to ask new questions. It helps me rethink
the Universe and the world and my place in it. And from time to time,
David has invited me to talk with you,
to think with you about some of
the important ideas that David has done
in the Big History lectures. For example,
I loved the last lecture where David talked
about origin stories. Actually, origin stories
have been important in my life. My grandmother used to read me
these origin stories and they were beautiful,
they were wonderful. And in fact, I'm going to
read them to my grandchildren as they get a little bit older. But David told us
that origin stories do more than
tell a good tale. They make claims
about the way the world began and the way it works. "Claims"--
do you ever use that word? We historians and scientists
use the word "claims" to answer questions,
to make assertions, suggestions about
the way the world works, in answer to our own puzzles. Now, "claims" may not be a word
that you use every day, but you make claims every day. You're surrounded
by claims every day, you encounter them every day. For example, a friend tells you
over the weekend that they got the flu
and that's why they didn't call you. They're making a claim. If you read a blog
that tells you that your favorite band
is going to break up, they're making a claim. If you tell your parents
that the reason why you came in late
was because your cell phone died and you couldn't tell the time,
you're making a claim. But here's the question:
How would you know which claims to trust,
which ones to ignore and which ones
to investigate further? For example,
would you automatically trust, trust your friend
when they said, "I had the flu
over the weekend"? Would you trust
that blog enough to repost
your favorite band disbanding, and what about your parents? Would they trust that
your cell phone battery died and that was why
you came in late? In this course,
in the Big History course, we're going to ask you
to raise questions about claims,
to understand how it is that people make claims and by what means
we can trust them. The degree of trust in claims is
a very important question that we're going to take up
in this course. So let's take up this question
of how you learn to trust or how you evaluate claims. And let's use
an everyday experience, something I'll bet
that you've had. Let's imagine that we,
you and me, are going to go look for a new restaurant,
the Big History Caf￩, that we've heard
great things about. The food is exotic,
it's coming from all over the world,
heck, all over the Universe. And we hear
the portions are enormous. Unfortunately, we've gotten
lost on our way there. But good news. There's a person who seems
to know their way around approaching us. And so you stop them and say, "Hey, can you tell me
how to get to the Big History Caf￩?" And she says, "Of course. "You head down to the corner,
make a right, "pass the big department store "and a little ways
down on the left you're going to see
the Big History Caf￩." And so we start down our way
following those directions but suddenly we stop. Do we trust her? Does she really know? I mean, our intuition,
our gut said, "She seemed confident. Let's follow it." But then we stop and we decide, "You know, we should probably
check this out." So we turn back and we say,
"Excuse me. "Have you ever been
to the Big History Caf￩? Do you know where it is?" And she tells us, "Of course. "It's my favorite restaurant. I've been going there
for years and years." So we feel good about this. She is... seems to be
in authority, she's been there before
for the last five years and so we head on our way
to the Big History Caf￩. But then we stop
and all of a sudden you realize,
"Wait a second, "the Big History Caf￩
is a new caf￩. "It's only a year old. "She couldn't have been
going for five years. "There's something wrong here. "It doesn't make sense. "It's illogical for her
to have been saying that she's been going
for five years." Good news, though. You remember that we both have
cell phones and our cell phones have
mapping programs on it. So you decide, "Let's
map the Big History Caf￩." And because we both know
that sometimes mapping programs make mistakes, you decide,
"You map one, I'll map one and we'll check." Good news. We map the Big History Caf￩
and our cell phones agree, our mapping programs agree. By the way, we also discover that she had been telling us
the wrong directions to the... a different caf￩. In fact, we find
on our cell phones that the Little History Caf￩
is exactly where she said it was
going to be. The Big History Caf￩
is five blocks to the other direction. Confident now
that we have the evidence that our directions
are now accurate, we checked it out
in two sources, we head towards
the Big History Caf￩. Okay, that was
a pretty simple story and suspenseful
because we did get eventually to the restaurant, but I hope
what it did was illuminate four different ways
that human beings assess claims, we test claims. So what were they? We look for intuition
to test some claims. Intuition, a gut feeling like when we just felt
that she was telling us the right story. We also use authority. Now, authority is when we accept
information or data from a credible source,
a believable source. We also use logic. We test claims sometimes by using our minds
to think about something to see if these things
make sense. And then of course
we also test claims by using evidence. That's when we're gathering up available information
about the world. By the way, "evidence" is
an interesting word because "evidence"
comes from "evident," to be able
to see something. It's something that we can see,
and in this story both of us could see it
on different sources and hence,
we were trusting our evidence. Of course, we want you to learn,
and more important, we want you to understand
the claims that people have been making
about Big History questions. The most important claims,
the best claims that we as human beings
can make and answer to those questions. But actually we want you
to do something more. We want you to develop
the skills to recognize when people
are asking good questions. We want you to develop
the skills to begin to assess other people's claims,
to use intuition, to use authority
and, most importantly, logic and evidence
to assess claims, to determine whether or not
they're trustworthy, to what degree you trust them,
whether or not you should ignore a claim
or whether or not claims need further
investigation, new questions. Why do we want you to do that? Because actually
that's how Big History works. That's the engine
that drives Big History. It's people just like you
that have begun to test and ask questions
about people's claims, raising new questions,
finding ways to develop new evidence and furthering
our collective learning. Incidentally,
I'm wondering, did you believe all those claims
that I made about myself? I didn't tell you
very much actually. I told you that I'm Bob Bain, I'm a friend and colleague
of David Christian's, but I didn't tell you
much more about me. Did your intuition tell you? "You know, my gut tells me
I can trust that guy." Or because I'm on this video,
did that give me the authority to make these claims
that I've been making? Did your logic tell you,
"You know, the story he told me "seemed to make sense and therefore it was credible
because it was so logical"? Or did you go online
to discover that actually I'm a professor
of history and education at the University of Michigan
in Ann Arbor and that for 26 years
before that I was a high school
history teacher? I'd like you to believe
those claims that I made but I want you
to be the judge.