OK. This is all our
parts all laid out for the Bit-zee bot, the things
that you'll need to make one. Now you can make yours out
of a broad variety of things, and we highly recommend
that you do that. The only thing that you really
have to have is the Arduino. Everything else you can
switch out for other things. You can use different
types of batteries. You can use different
motors, et cetera. I'm going to go through
what I've got here and where the
products came from, or where the parts came
from, I should say. And then we're going to start
to put a Bit-zee together on this board so you can
see how it's all wired up. But if you don't happen to
have two hair dryers that you can take apart, you can either
go and buy two electric motors and get some wheels for them. Or there's a variety
of things you can do to solve that problem. So again, these are two
motors from our hair dryer. You can see the hair
dryer blower fan there. And underneath that
is a sheet of Lexan. It's a stiff plastic
that's really resilient. And that sheet of Lexan,
it's easy to machine. You can drill holes in it
and do stuff like that. So it's going to be used for
mounting some of our devices. And you can get
that at a hardware store for a few dollars. And this is a universal
remote, and it can be gotten at
Target for around $8. And we're going to use that
to control our Bit-zee bot. And then we've got
some electrical tape and different 22-gauge wire. And then we have
some solder here. We'll use that to make
our solder connections. Just like if you saw the video
for the motor controller, it was used to
solder that together. And this is a motor
controller, which will allow us to
control the speed and direction of our motors. And this is our Arduino. It's our microprocessor
that we can plug into-- I should say a
microcontroller that we can plug into our computer
and download code to it to get the motor
controller and other things to function the way
we want them to. So this is a breadboard, and
it's used for prototyping. And we're going to show
you how to wire it up and how to connect different
electronic components to that. And this is our digital
recording module, and it's for basically recording
sounds and playing them back. And we're going to use the
Arduino to trigger that so that when the little
bot drives around it can make some sounds. Of course, these are
just double-A batteries, and they're going to go
in this battery holder. The double-As are 1.5 volts. But when we connect
them in series together, they're going to be 12 volts. So that'll be great for
powering our motors, because they want to run on
a higher voltage than 1.5. And so we have our
different transistors here that we're
going to use to do some switching in our circuits. And we've got some three-color
LED and some screws and nuts and then a bunch of resistors. And these are 330
ohm, 10K ohm, 220 ohm. We'll go into the details
on that kind of stuff later. And then I have some of the
board of our alarm clock radio, so we're going to use some
components off of that board. And we've got our
coffee maker here. Or I should say
our coffee carafe; it's just the holder
for the coffee. And we're going to use
some of the components on this for the Bit-zee. And then we have some-- over
here you can see some zip ties. And so we also have
an-- we're going to need a infrared
sensor for the Bit-zee. And that infrared
sensor will be used for sensing from
the remote control. And so it looks like this,
and we'll have one of those as well.