(jazzy piano music) - [Male] We've made our way up a steep hillside on
the North end of Kyoto, and we've entered into the
temple complex of Ryoanji. - [Female] When we entered the temple, we were asked to take off our shoes. We're in a spiritual space, but also one that tourists are making
their way through. And the complex consists
of many temples and shrines and places of meditation for the monks who lived here, but this is specifically a place related to Zen Buddhism, and the most famous place
within is the rock garden, and that's where we're standing now. - [Male] You can see the
garden as a distillation of the ideas of Zen Buddhism and of the highly-refined
sense of Japanese aesthetics. This is such a refined space. We see an enclosed courtyard
filled with light-gray stones with a series of moss islands
from which rocks protrude. - [Female] When we think of a
garden, we think of flowers. We might think of a water-feature, the informality of an English garden, the rigid geometry of a French garden, but a zen garden is to
encourage meditation. In fact the word zen means meditation. - [Male] The central idea of Buddhism is cultivating one's self
of reaching enlightenment. A garden is an attempt
to cultivate nature, to bring out its essential qualities. - [Female] For Buddha, the
world was a place of suffering and desire was the cause of suffering. The goal is to transcend that suffering to transcend the cycle
of rebirth of samsara, and in Zen Buddhism, the
path is sudden enlightenment that comes through meditation. - [Male] Nature is looked at carefully, its innate qualities, its imperfection, its inherent forms, and that
becomes the starting point. The idea is not to erase nature and make something that's perfect. The idea is to examine something, to understand its qualities,
and then to enhance them. - [Female] Finding beauty in
what is worn, what is aged. When we look around the
edges of the rock garden of this enclosure, we see a wall that hasn't been recently
painted, it's worn. - [Male] And that creates
this atmospheric quality that makes the entire garden reminiscent of a Japanese painting
where the rocks function as mountains and the two-dimensional wall functions as an atmospheric space. And in the study area for the abbot that is just adjacent to the garden, there are paintings that show rocky crags emerging out of a sea of mist. It's a perfect reflection
of the garden itself. - [Female] Well, it's more beautiful in a Japanese aesthetic
to not see a perfect view of the mountain on a perfectly, clear day, but rather for the mountain
to be obscured by the mist. There's an opening for interpretation for the suggestive for-- - [Male] Surprise. - [Female] For things that
are half there, half hidden, and as we move through the
garden, our view shifts. The numbers of rocks that we see shift. That idea of never seeing the whole, but the appreciation for
the incomplete is here. - [Male] The pebbles have been raked into a very deliberate pattern, one that emphasizes the horizontal. It slows our eyes down. Ovoid shapes frame each
of the individual islands, the waves of the sea. - [Female] The analogy of water, and it also suggests to me in
its sparseness when the stuff of the world came to
being out of nothingness. - [Male] This is a garden that's meant to insight enlightenment that could come to you at any moment. Even on this cloudy, slightly rainy day, the garden is bright and feels dry. Just immediately to its right is a densely forested rectangle, slightly smaller than the rock garden. It is completely carpeted with green moss, and it's such a relief for the eye. - [Female] This is all about our eye, awakening our eyes, asking us to look, asking us to pay
attention, and the very act of paying attention takes us
out of our everyday lives, and takes us to a place
of heightened awareness of standing apart from
things, and in that way, helping to prepare the
path for enlightenment. (jazzy piano)