So in this video, we're going
to take the 9 volt connector that we have that we're using
to take power from our battery and feed to the bot. And we're going to upgrade
the wires from around 32-gauge stranded to 18-gauge
solid copper wire. And so they can
handle more current. And we know our motors can pull
it at least an amp each so we want to make sure we
have enough handling capacity with our wires. And we'll talk about
that in another video. So the first thing we
need to do is trim off the outer plastic shell
around the connector. That's, I think, it's a
vinyl shell, maybe PVC. And we're just going to
remove that and expose the connector and the wires. You can see in the back
we have two rivets. And those rivets are
crimped onto the wire. And we're just going to
pull the wires right out of those crimps. And so we'll just
have the rivets and the connectors exposed. So it's important
when you connect these that you make sure to wire
them to the correct side. So the positive one is
going to be the one that's sort of mushroomed
out on the top and the negative one is going
to be the smaller of the two connectors there when
you flip it over. So we're just soldering
a little bit more solder to the back of that
connector to hold the positive lead in place. And it's important that you
get a good flow of solder all the way around it. And then we're doing
the negative as well. And now that we have
the two wires connected, we're going to protect
the back of them by using a piece of shrink wrap. So we'll slide the shrink
wrap over the wires and then we're going to punch
two holes in the shrink wrap for our connections. So we'll mush the shrink wrap
around those connection points, the socket points. And once we've got that pushed
all out around there like that, we'll do the other side. And then we're just
going to trim off the excess with a
break off blade knife. And then we'll get the
rest of that excess there. And then we'll take
our heat gun and we'll shrink the shrink wrap so that
we have a nice tight connection there that's not
going to come apart. And we'll just mush
the end together while the shrink
wrap is still soft. OK. So now we're going to
connect our new connector to our batteries. We're just going to put it in
and use our large screwdriver to snap it in place. Once the wires are
snapped in place, it's really important that
you keep them separated. Otherwise, the two leads on
there, the ends of the wires could touch each other, and when
they touch, they'll short out and it'll cause the
wires to heat up and could cause a
problem for you. It'll definitely
drain your battery. So you don't want
that to happen. So we're going to feed
our black negative wire up through the hole that we
created for our battery wires. And the positive wire will
also go up through that hole. And then it's going to come
back down through the hole by the motor. And once it comes back down
through the hole by the motor, we're going to connect
it to our switch, which will allow us to turn
the bot on and off. And we'll show you how to wire
the switch in the next video.