So in this video,
we're going to show you how to turn on and off the
camera using transistors, and also how to control
the shutter function. So we're just using
NPN transistors. They are 2N222A transistors,
and 10k Ohm resistors. So we're connecting
the 10k Ohm resistor just like we did
for the sound module to the base, or the center
wire of our transistor. And then we're just cutting
22-gauge hookup wire, and connecting that to the
pinouts on our Arduino. So we're connecting
that to pinouts 4 and 5. And 4 goes to the shutter--
I'm sorry 4 goes to the power, 5 goes to the shutter. And then we have our magnet
wire that we connected to the actual contacts
for the buttons that turn on and off the camera. And we're going to strip
away the lacquer coating on the outside of
that wire, using the edge of our
break-off blade knife. And it's important that you
rotate the wire as you do this, so that you can get the
lacquer on the backside and on the edges. It's really easy to
miss that, and you won't get as good
a connection if you don't strip all the lacquer off. So the lacquer acts as
a really thin insulator. Those thin wires made
it easy to connect to the power connections
for our switches. But it's definitely
not the right wire to connect to our breadboard,
because it's too small a gauge. It won't stick, it
won't stay in place. So we need to connect
it to a thicker wire. So we're using a
22-gauge hookup wire. And we just twisted the magnet
wire around the hookup wire, and now we're just soldering
the two pieces together. And you want to make sure that
solder travels all up and down the joint, to make sure it's
a good solid connection. And then to prevent
any shorting, we're going to take
some heat shrink tubing, and connect it, just slide
it right over that joint, and use our pliers to pull
it down just a little bit. We want about 1/4 inch exposed. And then we're going
use our heat gun to get that heat shrink tubing
to shrink around our wire, and protect the new connection. And so we can just bend
that wire right into place. And that goes on the left
side of our transistor, and that is going to
be our emitter side. And now we're going to
do the collector side. And we're just stripping
off the lacquer coating. And again we'll wrap it
around that 22-gauge wire. And then we'll
solder it in place, and we'll heat shrink
tubing that wire as well. And that's going to allow us
to get a nice good connection, and also to protect
from the-- again, from shorting with the
heat shrink tubing there. So we'll connect that to the
other side of our transistor, right there. And so that will
allow our Arduino to send a small voltage
to the transistor to turn the camera on and off. And so now we still
have our shutter button, the most important
button, and we are going to wire up that
the same way we did our power button. So we twisted our--
stripped our magnet wires, and twisted them
around 22-gauge wire, and then soldered them in place. And now we're putting our heat
shrink tubing over those wires, and trimming off
any excess there, and then getting that
heat shrink tubing on. And we'll use our
heat gun to cause that tubing to shrink
in place and protect those new connections. And again, we'll
just put those wires on both the emitter
and the base, I should say on both the
emitter and collector on the transistor. And now we can control our
camera with our Arduino.