- I know, I know I promised
you I'd give you a chance to sit in my chair. Well, now I think you're finally ready. One of the final polishing
steps in making a film is the final color adjustments
to every single frame of the film, in order
to increase its impact on the audience. And that's exactly what we do here in the color mastering suite, but it's not actually me who does it. Let me introduce you to our
colorist, Mark Dinicola. Hi, Mark. - Hi, Don, thank you for having me. - Great, so tell me what is your job? - I operate this color mastering system. It's the tool set of a
colorist, and a colorist is responsible for actually
making all adjustments to a finished film. I could show you an
example on Ratatouille. - Cool. - So if we take this shot
from Ratatouille, for example, we might start by adding contrast, then we might add some saturation. Normally when I do this, the
DP is sitting here with me, and on this film, the
DP was Sharon Calahan. Perhaps we should ask Sharon to come in. Hey Sharon! - Hey guys, what's up? - So on Ratatouille, what
were some of the issues and interesting facts that
came up while you were doing color correction on that movie? - Well, Ratatouille was a film that had a very unique, stylized look to it that we envisioned in the very beginning, and a lot of it is just
kinda carrying it all the way through to make sure the final product looks as good as it can
and has that vision in it. And for Ratatouille,
some of those things were having nice, rich
shadows, making sure that there's adequate contrast
and saturation in the scene, making sure the eye looks
where it's supposed to look. But stylistically, one of
the things that was really important to me was making
the human skin look good and the food look really good, and tying it all together,
and one of the ways that I use color correction
to help with that is to add a little bit
of red to the darks, the deep darks, so that it
kind of tied the look together and almost made the film feel like it was dipped in chocolate a little bit. - Very cool. - I wanted the audience
to leave feeling hungry. - So guys, in this next
exercise, we're gonna give you a chance to make some of
your own color adjustments on these scenes. To make changes to the entire
image, press select + all. And to adjust hue and
saturation, and lightness, and contrast, you can use these sliders. We like using sliders
because it allows us to make very fine-tuned adjustments. And instead of making
changes to the whole image, you can also select smaller
regions in the image to focus on. To do this, press select
region, and then click around the image to define
an area you want to adjust, like this. Once you've made a
selection, your adjustments to hue, saturation, and
lightness, and contrast will only affect what's
inside this region, and anything outside it will be ignored. Go ahead and see what kinds
of looks you can come up with. Remember, the goal is to have fun and explore what's possible.