[MUSIC PLAYING] DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: So to
recap from the last video, Luther refused to renounce his
teachings at the Diet of Worms, and was kidnapped, as he
left the Diet of Worms, by the Elector of
Saxony, and secreted away in a castle where he translated
the New Testament into German. DR. BETH HARRIS: This is
an enormous undertaking, which he completes in
a matter of months. And it's important
to Luther because it means that everyone can read
the Bible for themselves. Luther's main ideas
are scripture alone, and the priesthood
of all believers. So you don't need
to go to the church to understand the word
of God, to understand the path to salvation,
all you need to do is to read the
Bible-- scripture alone, so putting the Bible in
the hands of everyone. This other idea of the
priesthood of all believers, is this notion that we can have
a direct relationship with God that's unmediated by the
priests, by a local bishop, or by the pope. It's just us and our creator. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: So we've
come across three major ideas then from Luther, faith
alone, scripture alone, and the priesthood
of all believers. Now these ideas, that
we can look directly at the scriptures,
that we can have that kind of direct
relationship with God, means that lots of people can
come up with slightly varying understandings of what
that relationship is. DR. BETH HARRIS: Right. As soon as the word of God is
not mediated by the church, as soon as everyone can
read it for themselves, it becomes clear just how
ambiguous much of what's in the New Testament and
the Old Testament really is, and how differently
it can be interpreted by different people. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER:
And that's why we have so many different
Protestant sects. DR. BETH HARRIS:
Immediately, Luther's words spread very quickly. If we go to Zurich, to
Switzerland, we find Zwingli. Like Luther, he
looks to scripture as the sole authority, not
the church, but scripture. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: Now
he differed from Luther in one important
regard, the Eucharist. Now Luther had already broken
with the Catholic Church's understanding of the
Eucharist, that there was transubstantiation-- that
is, that the bread and the wine was by miracle transformed
into the actual flesh and the actual blood of Christ. Luther believed that
the blood of Christ and the flesh of Christ
was present in the bread and the wine, but
not that the priest had this, kind of,
special power that allowed for the
transformation itself. And then Zwingli changes
that interpretation, and says that the Eucharist
is entirely symbolic, and that there is no actual
blood and no actual flesh present in the church. DR. BETH HARRIS: Right, and
actually, Luther and Zwingli got together to
debate this issue, to try to create a more
unified Protestant Church, but they were unable to agree. So you can see these very
serious doctrinal disputes that are going on
during this time. Everything is being questioned. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: Well,
in Zurich, at the same time also, we have another
group, the Anabaptists. And they're fascinating,
because they take issue with the practice of
baptism close to birth. That is, an infant is
brought and baptized. They look back to the
belief that Christ was baptized as an adult. That is, he was baptized
of his own free will. And they were called
the Anabaptists by people who didn't
like them, because they saw this kind of
spiritual awakening later in life when we
could take responsibility for our spiritual lives. DR. BETH HARRIS: Right. And Anabaptist actually
means re-baptism, which was completely against
Catholic Church doctrine. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: And the Amish
and the Mennonites, actually, come directly from
the Anabaptists. DR. BETH HARRIS: And those
may be more familiar to us. John Calvin, another
really important reformer during this period,
who we might know for his doctrine
of predestination. This is really following
very much what Luther also taught, that all you
needed to have was faith. God had already
decided, for Calvin, from the beginning of
time who was elect. In other words, who was
blessed, who would go to Heaven, and who would go to Hell. In other words, completely
disregarding the possibility of free will, of choice. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER:
It's interesting, because we generally think that
we have some agency-- that we can make our way into Heaven if
only we are really, truly good. But Calvin and Luther
are both saying, no, this is entirely God's
will, and we only enact it. DR. BETH HARRIS: God
exists in an eternal realm, and so it's not like God
woke up on Monday and said, you're damned, and you, over
there, you're going to Hell. But something that's
predetermined. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER:
Now, Calvin was French. He was a lawyer, originally,
but he fled to Switzerland. But let's go to England. What's happening there? DR. BETH HARRIS:
Well, Henry VIII wants an annulment from his
first wife Catherine of Aragon, because she's failed to produce
any male heirs to the throne. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: Well, she
had produced, or I should say, they had produced male heirs. They just haven't
survived infancy. DR. BETH HARRIS:
And so Henry VIII applies to the pope
for an annulment, and the pope is actually worried
about offending the Holy Roman Emperor, and there's all
sorts of political issues, but he says, sorry, I can't
grant you an annulment. So Henry then goes to the
head of the Church in England, and says, will you
grant me an annulment? And that is granted. And so the power of the pope
is usurped in this case, and soon after that,
an act of parliament makes the king, the
monarch of England, the head of the
Church in England. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: But I
think we need to be careful. Because we don't want to say
that the Anglican Church, that is, the Church of England
that Henry is now heading, is entirely the result of
his desire for a divorce, or an annulment. There are strong spiritual and
also political issues here. Just like in the
Germanic countries, many felt that the pope
had too much power. And Henry was not only
getting his annulment, he was also getting the
lands of the church. DR. BETH HARRIS:
Protestantism is spreading in primarily German-speaking
countries, up in Scandinavia, and England, and
Scotland, in Switzerland, but if we look to southern
Germany and Italy, or France, or Spain, those countries
remain predominantly Catholic. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: All
true, but focusing too much on the politics and focusing
too much on Henry's marriages-- because ultimately, Henry
VIII will have six marriages-- is to miss the brutality,
the violence of this period. DR. BETH HARRIS: On both sides,
Catholics and Protestants. Thousands of people were
hanged, burned at the stake, tortured, simply because
of their beliefs. And each side was convinced
that they were in the right, and the other side was
not only in the wrong, but actually, somehow in
the power of the devil. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: This was
one of the most violent periods in Europe, and some of the worst
violence took place in France. Now the French Protestants
were known as Huguenots. And initially, there
was some tolerance, but that ended fairly quickly. And the Huguenots were
declared, en masse, heretical. That is, Protestantism
was outlawed in France. DR. BETH HARRIS: And
it was a civil war in France for much of the
end of the 16th century. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER: But just
like in the German countries and just like in
England, the issues were not only spiritual,
they were also political. And so what you had is an
alignment of the ruling families of France
pitted against each other on both the Protestant
and the Catholic sides. DR. BETH HARRIS: We also
see attempts at tolerance. So for example, in
the German states, the Peace of Augsburg in 1555
establishes this principle of, "Whose realm, his religion." This idea that the local
princes in the Holy Roman Empire could choose the
religion for their area. In other words,
they could choose between Protestantism
and Catholicism. It's not going to be declared
by the Holy Roman Emperor. The ruler of each region
is going to get to decide. And similarly, in
France, we have the Edict of Nantes in 1598,
which establishes the principle of
religious toleration. DR. STEVEN ZUCKER:
So that really ends this long period in the second
half of the 16th century known as the French Wars of Religion. And finally, there
is some peace. But ultimately,
things just got worse. By the early 17th century,
we see the beginning of the 30 Years' War,
which pitted Protestants and Catholics
against each other, especially in the
Holy Roman Empire. [MUSIC PLAYING]