Voiceover: In the last video, we used the criteria for aromaticity to see that heterocycles
can be aromatic too. In this video, we're going to look at more aromatic heterocycles, specifically five-membered rings. We'll start with pyrrole right down here. The pyrrole molecule, as you can see, five atoms in the ring, and if we take a look at
the carbons in the ring, we can see that those carbons all have a double bond to them. Therefore, each of those
carbons is sp two hybridized, meaning each of the carbons
has a free p orbital. So I can go ahead and
draw a free p orbital on each of those four carbons like that. In terms of the nitrogen on the ring, I need to know the hybridization
state of this nitrogen. The best way to do that is to
calculate the steric number. We know the steric number is equal to the number of sigma bonds plus number of lone pairs of elections. I can see that here is a sigma bond, here is a sigma bond, and here is a sigma bond, so three sigma bonds plus
lone pairs of electrons. There's one lone pair of
electrons on that nitrogen there, so the steric number
should be equal to four, which would imply an sp three hybridization state for pyrrole. We know that's not the
case because pyrrole is an aromatic molecule, and sp three hybridized
nitrogen would mean no p orbitals at that nitrogen, which would violate the first criterion for this compound to be aromatic. And so there must be some way to get that nitrogen to
be sp two hybridized, and of course, we saw how to do that in the end to the last video. This lone pair of
electrons on this nitrogen is actually not localized
to this nitrogen. We can take this lone pair of electrons and move them in here so that lone pair of electrons
can participate in resonance. If those lone pairs of
electrons move into there to form a pi bond, that would kick these
electrons off onto this carbon, so the resonance structure will have nitrogen with a pi bond here now and a lone pair of
electrons on this carbon, which would give this carbon
a negative one formal charge. We still have a pi bond
over here like that, and this nitrogen now would
have a plus one formal charge. Now when we analyze
the hybridization state of this nitrogen, we can see that once again,
we're going for sigma bonds, so one sigma bond, two sigma
bonds, three sigma bonds, so three sigma bonds, this time no lone pairs of electrons because that lone pair of electrons is now de-localized in resonance, and so three plus zero is of course three, meaning that this nitrogen
is now sp two hybridized. Since that nitrogen is sp two hybridized, it has a free p orbital, so we can go ahead and draw
the p orbital on that nitrogen. You could think about in
terms of dot structure, these two electrons over here, these two electrons are
actually de-localized and participate in resonance, so that lone pair of electrons
you could think about as occupying a p orbital here and they're actually de-localized. We have all these pi
electrons de-localized throughout our ring, and so let's go ahead
and check the criteria for aromaticity. Pyrrole does contain a ring of continuously overlapping p orbitals, and it does have four
n plus two pi electrons in that ring, so let's go ahead and highlight those. We had these pi electrons, so that's two, these pi electrons, so that's four, and then these pi
electrons here in magenta are actually de-localized in the ring, so that gives us six pi electrons. So if n is equal to one, four times one plus two
gives me six pi electrons. Pyrrole has six pi electrons and also has a ring of continuously
overlapping p orbitals, so we can say that it is aromatic. Let's go ahead and look
at another molecule here so similar to it. This is imidazole. For imidazole, once
again, we have the same sort of situation that we had for pyrrole with this nitrogen right here, so at first, it looks like that nitrogen might be sp three hybridized, but we can draw a
resonance structure for it. We can take these electrons
in here and move them in here, which will kick these electrons
off onto that top nitrogen. Let's go ahead and draw the
resonance structure for that. We would have some pi electrons here. We would have a double bond here. We would now have a plus one formal charge on this nitrogen, and we would have a
negative one formal charge on this top nitrogen right here like that. Once again, we've seen
that this nitrogen in blue, it's actually sp two hybridized. Let me go ahead and highlight it in blue over here on the right. This nitrogen is actually
sp two hybridized, so it's the exact same situation
that we saw in pyrrole, which, at first, it looks
like those electrons might be localized to that nitrogen. Those electrons are actually not. Those electrons are
de-localized in the ring because of the possible
resonance structure. And so we've determined
that that nitrogen in blue that's bond to that hydrogen
is sp two hybridized, so over here, I can go ahead and identify that nitrogen in blue that's
bond into the hydrogen. It's sp two hybridized. Therefore, it has a p orbital like that, so I can go ahead and draw the
p orbital on that nitrogen. If I look at the carbons, if I look at the carbons in this molecule, let me go ahead and highlight
these carbons in red here, so these three carbons of
my original dot structure, we can see they have
a double bond to them, so those are all sp two hybridized, so I can go ahead and
draw in the p orbital on those carbons as well. Then once again, going back
to the original dot structure and this time looking at the nitrogen, I'm going to go ahead and
draw this one in magenta, this nitrogen right here, if I look at this first dot structure, it's just like the example in pyridine that we saw in the last video. It's actually sp two hybridized. Since it's sp two hybridized, we could think about these
electrons in here in magenta as participating in resonance and the electrons in blue
here as being localized to that nitrogen atom, localized to an sp two hybridized orbital, and so I can go ahead and
identify this nitrogen in magenta over here, so I'm saying this nitrogen is in magenta. I can say that it is sp two hybridized. It's the same situation as pyridine, so I can go ahead and
draw a p orbital on it. And that lone pair of electrons in blue that's on that nitrogen, that lone pair of electrons occupies, let me go ahead and put them in blue, that lone pair of electrons
is going to occupy an sp two hybridized
orbital on that nitrogen, so those electrons are
not involved in resonance. Those electrons are
localized to that nitrogen. And so when we go ahead and think about the criteria for aromaticity, our first criteria are we have
overlapping p orbitals here, and so I can see that that is the case. We have overlapping p orbitals. Everything is sp two
hybridized in our ring. And of course, we also need
four n plus two pi electrons, and so let me go ahead and
label those in magenta. My pi electrons, going back
to my original dot structure, here's two, here's four, and then this lone pair on our nitrogen, those are actually pi electrons, when we think about this
resonance structure here, so I'm going to go ahead and
label them in magenta again. So there actually are six pi electrons in the imidazole molecule, and those pi electrons are
de-localized around this ring, around this overlapping p orbitals, and so the imidazole
molecule is aromatic as well. The imidazole molecule is actually extremely important in biochemistry, so let's take a look at a famous molecule that contains the imidazole ring, and this molecule is called histamine, which, anyone who has allergies,
has heard of histamine. You can see the imidazole
ring over here in the left on the histamine molecule. If you want to understand biochemistry, it's very useful to
understand these concepts found in organic chemistry. Histamine would be an example of a biological aromatic heterocycle. This portion of the
molecule, the imidazole ring, is aromatic. It satisfies the two
criteria, as we have seen. Let's do one more example of
an aromatic heterocycle here. This time, let's look at an
example that has sulfur in it. This molecule is called thiophene. This is really the sulfur analog to the pyrrole molecule that we studied. Let's start by analyzing the sulfur in terms of its steric number. I'm going to look at
this sulfur right here. I'm going to calculate the
steric number of that sulfur, so number of sigma bonds to that atom. Here is a sigma bond,
and here is a sigma bond, so we have steric number is equal to number of sigma bonds plus
number of lone pairs of electrons so we have two lone pairs of electrons around that sulfur like that, so that would be two plus
two, which is equal to four, which implies that that
sulfur is sp three hybridized, but that doesn't work for
our concept of aromaticity because in order for
something to be aromatic, our atom needs to be sp two hybridized, so it has a free p orbital, just like these carbons right here. Once again, these carbons all
have a double bond to them, so those carbons all have a p orbital, so I can go ahead and sketch in those, those p orbitals on
those carbons like that. This sulfur looks like
it's sp three hybridized, but of course it's going
to be a similar example to the pyrrole molecule. I can show a resonance structure for this thiophene molecule. I can take one of these
known pairs of electrons, I'm going to say it's the
lone pair on the right here, and I could show them
moving in to form a pi bond between the sulfur and this carbon, which would of course
kick these electrons off onto that carbon. And so when I go ahead and
draw this resonance structure, now there is a pi bond between
the sulfur and this carbon, lone pair of electrons
moved out onto this carbon, giving that carbon a
negative one formal charge. There is still a lone pair of electro- still a pi bond, I should say, over here, and there is still a
lone pair of electrons left on this sulfur. So now, we can also give this sulfur a plus one formal charge, and we can analyze it in
terms of its steric number, so once again, number of sigma bonds. This is a sigma bond,
this is a sigma bond, and so the steric number would be equal to two plus how many
lone pairs of electrons, now there's only one, so two plus one is equal to three. So now we can see that it's
actually sp two hybridized, so it has three sp two hybrid orbitals, and one of those sp two hybrid orbitals is going to contain that
lone pair of electrons in blue there, so that
lone pair of electrons. Again, it's sp two hybridized, which means it has two other
sp two hybrid orbitals, and those hybrid orbitals
are forming bonds with those carbons there. Since it's sp two hybridized, it also has an unhybridized p orbital, so I can go ahead and draw in that unhybridized p orbital. I could think about one of
those lone pairs of electrons on my original dot structure
occupying a p orbital, so let's go back here
and look at the thiophene original dot structure I drew. I could think about one of
this lone pair of electrons. I'm going to mark it in magenta
as occupying a p orbital, so I can go ahead and put
it in there like that. And I could think about the
other lone pair of electrons on that dot structure as occupying an sp two hybridized
orbital out to the side. Whenever you see this
situation, think about where those lone pairs of
electrons actually are. I also have these as being pi electrons and these as being pi electrons, so two, four, six, a total of six pi electrons,
which is Huckel's number, de-localized throughout our ring, throughout our overlapping p orbitals, and so we can say that
the thiophene molecule is aromatic. It satisfies both of
the criteria for this. There are, of course, analogs
to thiophene using oxygen, and that's of course a similar situation. You can draw other resonance structures, but I just wanted to draw this one to show that one of those lone pairs
is actually de-localized and involved in resonance, and one of those lone
pairs is actually localized to the sulfur atom and localized in an sp
two hybridized orbital. So this is how to analyze
aromatic heterocycles.