(piano music) - [Stephen] We're in the Brooklyn Museum and we're looking at one
of several helmet masks for the Sande Society. - [Peri] This is a Pan
West African phenomenon where several different
ethnic groups participated in this masquerade tradition. - [Stephen] The mask we're looking at would have been worn,
not in front of the face, but on top of the head. But the person who wore it would have been obscured by raffia that would have hung down over the face. - [Peri] But what really
makes it really unique is it's the only masquerade
tradition, that we know of, where women wore the mask. - [Stephen] Now, men
would have make this mask, would have actually carved it. But the entire ritual was performed by, and for, women. - [Peri] It was made to help young girls go through initiation. Young girls among many
different ethnic groups, including the Mende, whose
group made this particular mask, would have been taken
from their every day lives and their chores to a
secluded area in the forest where they would be instructed on how to become good
wives and good mothers by members of the Sande Society. And, again, this was a secret society that girls, all girls,
were initiated into. - [Stephen] There's real
symbolism in being taken from the village into
this more dangerous place. - [Peri] This was a
liminal time for girls, and, in fact, their bodies would
be anointed with white clay to make them dry and
pasty and unattractive to suggest that they were not girls but hadn't yet become women. And so, it was outside of the realm of the village, where
this could take place. - [Stephen] If we look at the mask, it's got a beautiful, deep black sheen. The surface is smooth and glistening, and is in such contrast
to that chalky, white. - [Peri] This black shininess
is really the ideal. So what the artist has done, the carver, is create an image that
suggests an inner quality or the inner morality that
young girls should strive for. The mask becomes an
ideal for the young girls to mimic in their adult lives. - [Stephen] Well, we see
eyes that are largely closed and seem quite demure. We see a very small mouth
and very petite ears. - [Peri] And these downcast eyes suggest that she should be reserved. The small mouth suggests she
should keep her mouth closed and not gossip. Gossip being the most dangerous thing in a small society, in many cases. And then small ears so as
not to listen to that gossip. - [Stephen] But probably most evident is this wildly elaborate hair style. - [Peri] And the hair
style is where the artist has room for play. So, we have that seriousness of the face, this high, glossy forehead, but then we have this elaborate coiffure. We don't know the symbolic
meaning of all of these things. Many of this is learned as knowledge of that secret society. - [Stephen] And this
is not just historical. This is a continuing tradition. - [Peri] Because of the
civil war in Sierra Leone and surrounding countries,
all sorts of conflicts, we don't know to what extent
this tradition continues today. - [Stephen] One of the
other most evident features are the rolls of fat under the chin. - [Peri] The artist suggests
that she is full-figured, that she has enough body fat
to be able to bear children. And she is expected,
after initiation, to marry and have children. So this suggests an ideal, again. Also in seclusion, during initiation, is the only time a young girl
is given really rich foods to eat and can enjoy time off. So it's intended to fatten
her up a little bit too. The Sowei mask is thought to be a spirit. She comes from the bottoms
of rivers and lakes. - [Stephen] Below her
eyes, there are four lines on either side. - [Peri] These are scarification marks and they're part of the ideal aesthetic for a young Mende woman. While all the girls are in
seclusion, in that liminal space, not yet women but no longer girls, they're referred to as chrysalis, that is not quite the butterfly but no longer the caterpillar. And that shape is also echoed
in the shape of her neck. So, we have a multiplicity of meanings which are partly to do with the way scholars have studied them but also to do with the
fact that girls are exposed to different knowledge at
different times in their life when the Sande members
feel that it's appropriate. While this mask is intended
to instruct young girls about proper womanhood,
it actually never speaks. It never says a word. So, this mask, silent, is
able to teach young girls. And the way in which that
is done is through dance. So, the masks teaches the girls
particular dance movements and stories to those dances, telling girls, not only
practical information on how to cook and raise kids, but also spiritual knowledge and information about their belief system. - [Stephen] So the mask is this container of these very rich tradition. When we see it without its raffia, when we see it not worn, not part of this process of initiation, we're seeing it really as
an aestheticized object in the western tradition. Very different from the way
this would be understood in its original context. - [Peri] And young women think of this as a spirit when
it's danced with its raffia. - [Stephen] And these masks would be used over and over again, but when
they were not in the ritual, itself, it would not have
that spiritual presence. - [Peri] It would have been
housed in an elder woman's home who is an official from the Sande Society, and it was quite fine for
young initiates to see it. They wouldn't regard it as a spirit. They would regard it
merely as a piece of wood because, again, it was not performing with its raffia costume and
its attendants and musicians. (piano music)