Hi. I'm back at
Lakeside School, and I'm in the chemistry
lab as you can see. Now, look around you and try and count
how many different sorts of materials you can see. Ten? Easily. A hundred? Not too hard. And if you counted really carefully, well, look
at all these materials here. You could probably come up
quite easily to a thousand, 10,000, or maybe even 100,000. That's because in a Universe
with a hundred elements, you haven't just got a
hundred different materials. Those elements can
combine with each other in a huge number
of different ways to form millions and
millions of new materials, all the materials we see
in the world around us. All these new materials
eventually combine to find... to create entirely new
astronomical bodies. The most important by
far for us, of course, is our home planet, the Earth. But before we describe how the Earth and
the other planets of the solar system was created, there's a little problem
we have to take up. You remember
from the last unit, we saw that all those new
elements that were created made up only two percent of all the atoms
in the Universe. Yet, if we look at our earth,
we'll find that 90% of the earth is made up of elements like
iron, oxygen, silicon, magnesium, and other
elements created in supernova and dying stars. So, how did they get
concentrated like this to form planets
and bodies like that? Now, before I give my
answer, I'd like to ask if you have any ideas about
how that might have happened. To answer these questions
we must think about chemistry. And chemistry is all about how
different elements link up, how the atoms link up to
form what we call molecules. How atoms link up
depends very much on the arrangement
of their electrons. Some elements such as helium
are very, very stable, they hardly ever
link up with other atoms. In fact, they're
known as the noble gases. It's as if they're too snooty to join up with
all the other atoms. You'll find them
on the right side of the periodic table
by the way. But most atoms really like
to link up with other atoms. We say they're reactive. Hydrogen and oxygen,
for example, are always looking for chances
to link up with other atoms. If you see burning or you see a flame,
what you're really seeing is oxygen linking up
really violently with other atoms,
it's very reactive indeed. Now, when atoms join together,
we call them molecules. Each molecule has its
own distinctive qualities, which may be very different from the elements
of which they're formed. For example,
hydrogen and oxygen are both gases,
but when they combine, they form a very, very
familiar liquid-- water, H2O. And water has qualities
completely different from both hydrogen and oxygen. Different types of molecules also have different
types of bonds. Some bonds are extremely rigid,
flex... but others are very flexible. Some are very strong,
very hard to break, others are very easy to break. So there's a huge variety of different types of links
between molecules. Carbon, for example,
can link up with itself to form diamonds. Now, in a diamond the bonds are extremely
strong and extremely rigid, so a diamond
is very tough indeed. But carbon atoms could also
link up with themselves to form a very
different material, graphite. Now, graphite
is the led in a pencil. It's very soft stuff indeed. So, different bonds make
a lot of... lot of difference. Now, these
different types of links, different types of bonds
mean we have a huge variety of different types of materials. That's what explains the huge
variety of these materials. But note that
it's mostly elements other than hydrogen or helium
that make up these chemicals, and that's one reason why when
we talk about rich chemistry, we're talking mostly about that
tiny two percent of elements from the periodic table. Atoms began to form molecules
even in deep space, in the... in the clouds
of matter ejected by supernovae
and dying stars. How do we know this? Well, using spectroscopes,
we can tell what elements and what chemicals
are out there. And we know there's water,
plenty of ice, carbon dioxide,
ammonia, acetic acid, a whole range
of simple molecules that are very
familiar in daily life. There are also
lots of silicates. Silicates are molecules
made from silicon and oxygen, and they make up
most of the rocks in the earth's crust. Now, in space,
these molecules, which were pretty simple
by the way, they included 10 to 20 atoms,
at most 60. In space these molecules couldn't do a huge amount
of interesting stuff, but around newly born stars,
it turns out you could do a huge amount of interesting
stuff with these molecules. In fact, you could make planets. To see how this works,
what we're going to do is we're going to travel back in
time 4.5 billion years, and we're gonna zoom in. We've been looking at the
Universe so far in this course. We're gonna
zoom in on one rather average galaxy, the Milky Way. We're gonna zoom in
on one tiny part of it, and we're gonna look at the birth
of our solar system. Now, our sun formed
like any other star, from the collapse
of a cloud of matter under the pressure of gravity. That collapse like many others
was probably triggered by a huge supernova explosion somewhere in our
region of the Milky Way, and that supernova
explosion also seeded this cloud with
lots of new materials from other supernovae
and from dying stars. As the cloud collapsed,
it began to spin, like a spinning pizza dough. And as it spun, it slowly flattened out
to form a disk. Now, this is
something that happens throughout the Universe, which is why the Universe
is full of flat disks from the Milky Way itself
to our solar system, even to the rings
around Saturn. Astronomers call this sort of
disk a protoplanetary disk, or a proplyd. Now, as the proplyd
that eventually formed our solar system
began to collapse, at its center, it got hotter
and hotter and hotter, until eventually fusion began
and our sun was born. About 99% of all
the material in the proplyd went into the sun--
99.9% in fact.. That leaves 0.1% for the rest
of the solar system. All that stuff was
orbiting around the sun and, amazingly,
that tiny residue is what formed all the
rest of the solar system. Now, let's begin by looking
at the outer gassy planets and how they were formed. The intense heat
of the young sun drove away gassy materials from the inner parts
of the solar system, and above all, it drove away a lot of hydrogen and helium,
leaving that as a region deprived of hydrogen and helium. And all that gassy material gathered further out
in the solar system and eventually condense
to form the gassy giants. They are Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus, and Neptune. Now, they contained about
99% of the leftovers. So, what we're left with
is a tiny residue of a tiny residue to form
the inner rocky planets, including our Earth. Closer to the sun, from that tiny residue
of a residue, you find material orbiting,
orbiting in the inner orbits, and that material is less gassy. There's more
sort of solid stuff. You have little dust motes that eventually
will gather together through electrostatic forces or collisions
to form little rocks. You have particles of ice that will eventually
form snowball-like objects, and eventually they form things
like meteorites or asteroids, and they're getting
bigger and bigger and bigger and they're colliding
with each other. And in each orbit, you
eventually get large objects that finally sweep up through their
gravitational pull, everything else
that's in the orbit. And so, eventually,
over a hundred million years, in each orbit
you have a rocky planet. Now, this process
is called accretion. It's extremely violent. It's a huge amount of space stuff smashing
into other space stuff. And if you want to be
persuaded how violent it was, get out a pair of binoculars
and look at the moon one night and look at those craters. Those are evidence of how violent the process
of accretion was. Our moon was probably created when an object
perhaps the size of Mars collided with our earth,
our young earth and it gouged out
a huge chunk of the earth, and that stuff orbited around the Earth and slowly
accreted to form the object that we call the moon. So in this way,
through these processes, over about ten
to 20 million years, our solar system formed. And we end up with
a solar system that has inner rocky planets
in the inner orbits, these large gassy
planets in the outer orbits and woven through them,
lots of space debris. It includes meteorites,
asteroids, and comets. No one knew if there
were any other solar systems anywhere else in the Universe. It was quite possible this was the only solar system
in the Universe. But in the last 15 years, there's been some quite
magical astronomical research. A lot of it based
on satellite telescopes such as the Kepler satellite. And what we now are able to do is actually
see other solar systems. They vary hugely,
but we now know that solar systems are actually
very, very common indeed. And strangely what that does is it rather
increases the chances that out there somewhere,
there is life of some form. So exciting is
the science by the way that I even have
an app on my phone that tells me all about the most recent discoveries
of so-called exoplanets, which is what planets
around other stars are called. Let's return to the problem
we began with in this unit. How is it possible
from all these rare new chemical elements
to create entirely new things? And I hope by now we have
the beginnings of an answer. First, we saw that chemistry links chemicals
to form simple molecules, a whole range of new materials
are floating through space. And secondly, we saw
that in the environments, or we can call them the
Goldilocks environments around newly formed stars, those molecules
get smashed together, they get brought
together by chemistry and by gravity
and by electricity to form objects like dust motes, meteorites, asteroids
and eventually, planets and solar systems. Now, we regard
the creation of solar systems as the fourth great
threshold in this course. And that's because planets,
and in particular, rocky planets like our Earth,
are significantly more complex than stars. They are more complex because they have more
internal structure, but they are also much
more complex chemically. They contain a much greater
diversity of materials. Okay. Now, I've worn this lab
coat throughout the whole lecture
even though I'm a historian. I think it's time
to take it off, but I hope you're
beginning to see that what's happening
is that our Universe is getting more complex, more
diverse, and more interesting.