- {Voiceover] Phototropism in plants is a response in which a plant shoot grows toward a light source. The results of five different experimental treatments from classic investigations of phototropism are shown above. Part A: Give support for the claim that the cells located in the
tip of the plant shoot give support for the claim that the cells located in the tip of the plant shoot detect the light by comparing the results from treatment group one with the results from treatment group two and treatment group three. So we wanna compare these first three treatment groups, and you see when you have an unaltered tip that the whole plant is going to bend in
the direction of the light, when you remove the tip, it no longer bends in the direction of the light, or if you were to cover the tip with some type of an opaque cap so the light can't go through it, it's
still not going to bend. So this is pretty good
evidence that there is there is something about
the tip of the plant that allows the phototropism to occur, it allows the plant to
know which direction the light is and then makes somehow causes it to bend in that direction. So I'll just write that down. Give support for the claim, so we can say that phototropism phototropism phototropism only occurred only occurred when there is an unaltered tip unaltered tip that has access to the light that has access to light. No bending occurred no bending occurred occurred when either the tip was removed the tip was removed that was that was treatment two so treatment treatment two, or the tip was tip had an opaque cover, the tip had an opaque cover, that was treatment treatment treatment three. So that's all there is
to it, it only occurred when there was an unaltered tip, so that was treatment one that
has access to light, no bending occurred when
either the tip was removed in this one, in treatment two, or treatment three, so it's a pretty good indication that you need that tip and it needs to have access to light, something about the
tip lets the plant know what direction to start bending in. All right, let's do part B now. Part B. In treatment groups four and five, so that's these two treatment groups right over here, the tips
of the plants are removed and placed back onto the shoot on either a permeable or impermeable barrier. Using the results from treatment groups four and five, describe two
additional characteristics of the phototropism response. Well, when the tip was placed on top of a permeable barrier, the phototropism still happens, the plant still bends. So even though the tip is disconnected, because this barrier is permeable, the tip must be able
to sense the light and release some type of substance or hormone or chemical or something that's able to go through this permeable barrier, some type of substance that goes through this permeable barrier, and somehow signals to the rest of the plant to bend in the right direction. Because when you put
an impermeable barrier right over here, the tip
might be trying to release those same substances but they can't get through and so the rest
of the plant doesn't know to bend or in what direction to bend. So we could say, we could say tip, tip must release some type of hormone hormone I say chemical chemical that signals to rest of plant to bend to bend and in which direction which direction we know this, we know this, because only the or only I
could say treatment four only treatment four treatment four permeable barrier, and I'll say where the barrier's permeable to that substance, where the barrier is permeable to that substance that substance we know this because only treatment four where the barrier is permeable to the substance shows shows phototropism, phototropism. Not treatment treatment five. We know this, we could say, because of the two, of four and
five, only treatment four where the barrier's permeable to that substance shows phototropism. That's the only explanation here, that it's not doing somehow doing it through radio waves or
releasing substances that somehow float in the air to the rest of the plant, that somehow some type of substance is going through through directly from the tip to
the rest of the plant, and when you block it,
it's not able to send those chemical signals. That's the best that's
the best explanation that I can think of for
this behavior that we see between between treatments four and five.