So the past videos
of this series have been a pretty continuous
discussion about our genes, so our genes and our environment
related to our behavior. And to say that the
genes and the environment are both important
is really true. But really more
specifically, they interact. And so I've alluded
to this previously with the tea in the
hot water example. But I'm going to get really
specific with the language here because not only do our
genes and our environment both effect our
behavior, their effect is really dependent on each other. OK. So say you have two babies
in a nursery of a hospital. One, we'll say, is
genetically predisposed to be much more attractive
than the other one. So we have this
attractive baby and we have this really hideous baby. And as a result, the
beautiful baby over here, it receives more affection
and more attention. And it grows up to be generally
more sociable and well adjusted. But suppose even further that
at birth, both of these babies share a combination of genes
that predisposes depression. As we've learned,
the environment activates those genes. So in this case,
maybe the genes are activated by
environmental stressors. So both babies have these genes. But throughout life, this
cute and ultra-lovable baby is surrounded by this great
and supportive network and it has reduced stress. So its genes aren't stimulated
to create the combination of neurotransmitters
and other proteins that are involved in depression. But over here, this ugly baby
is cranking out these proteins like crazy. And maybe that's
because this baby is getting made
fun of all the time or maybe it's because
it has less friends. So I guess the cute
baby's genes are somewhat responsible for setting
up the environment. But really also the
environment is responsible, at least to some degree,
in keeping those depression genes at bay. Similarly, the less fortunate
baby over here, his genes play a role in his tough life. And that tough life is
activating the genes that are associated
with creating the neurotransmitters
of depression. So this is kind of a crude
example of gene and environment interacting with each other. But a more specific example
is the genetic condition PKU or phenylketonuria-- so PKU. And phenylketonuria
is a genetic condition in humans that's caused
by mutations to a gene that code for a liver enzyme. And that liver enzyme is
phenylalanine hydroxylase-- so PAH. But because the enzyme
is missing the amino acid phenylalanine, it doesn't get
converted into the amino acid tyrosine during one of the
metabolic pathways in our body. And so this causes a
build-up of phenylalanine in the body, which
can cause problems for brain development
and even other problems. So PKU, it affects one in
about 15,000 babies in the US. But most of these babies grow
up without any major problems. And it turns out that
during infant screening, these babies are
identified and are placed on a special
phenylalanine-free diet. So because they're not taking
in all of this phenylalanine, it's resulting in
a less problematic build up of the
phenylalanine in the body. So it's really an interaction
again between our genes and our environment
that initiates the body's responses
and behavior. So we see that
the environment is dependent on genetic
predisposition. But gene expression is also
dependent on the environment. And this is the
phenomenon that we're referring to as
gene/environment interaction. So this idea is going to
shift our vocabulary away from phrases like
nature versus nurture. It's going to bring us to a
more correct phraseology, nature through nurture.