(lamp pings) - Along with lines, shapes
are a major building block of composition and are critical to each storyboard and film frame. We begin with primitive or basic shapes, which even on their
own can imply emotions. For example, triangles can
convey action, speed, or tension. Circles appear friendly, and squares seem reliable and stable. Many of our characters and worlds begin as two or three shapes stuck together. A friendly circle on top of a strong, stable square body creates Mr. Incredible. We can take a circle, which is friendly, add a triangle, which is active, and we have Dash from the Incredibles, who is both of those things. Although we may start
with primitive shapes, they evolve in a fluid way to look more organic as we add more details. And with more detail, we can convey more information, meaning, or emotion. This leads to what we call a silhouette, which is a filled in outline of an object. Each of our characters would, hopefully, be immediately identifiable
from their silhouette. Check it out. Now let's return to the
storyboards and concept art from Up and ask our artists what they see. - With Up, we thought,
well, Carl and Ellie should play off of each other. They should almost be opposites in a way. Even though they complement,
they are opposites. And we thought, well, Carl would be this square shape here who's
basically got these drab, earth tone colors as a square. Ellie was represented by this circular, lighter shape as well, and
she'd be colored magenta. Again, she kind of looks at life through rose colored glasses was the thought. We really just wanted to start with these basic shapes for Carl and Ellie. So when you try to
think of those elements, these end up becoming the characters. Carl is still yet represented by a square and Ellie a circle. - You know, shape does a lot for us in this composition from Up. There are some really simple
ones to spot right off the bat. You have a circle or an oval. Very primitive. You have a version of a triangle. Again, it's got a gesture to it. It's leaning. It's dynamic, it's moving towards Ellie. Another triangle here with Ellie, kind of accepting those pieces. It's almost like they're two pieces of the same sort of thought. That curved circle is repeated here, which kind of helps
emphasize a stacked element in the same direction
aiming towards Carl's face. Behind Carl we have a
huge, huge rectangle, or series of rectangles that are, again, helping to draw your
eyes straight to Carl. - I really like this
example from Ratatouille of a character whose shape
is really intimidating. Anton Ego is the food critic who comes and is known to take
whole restaurants down. So the way that he's
designed, it's interesting, he's a skinny little
guy, so thin and so tall you can just see him
dominating over anyone. His head is leaning forward like he's coming over you like a vulture. There's something very funerary about him. If you look at even the way
that his office is designed, from above it looks like a coffin. I just really love that parallel between the character and the
sign that he occupies. - So for this scene, it's
the beach race scene. So the way that I use shape
here was to have a really large form that blocks out exactly
where you're supposed to look. So it feels like you're an outsider, but you also get a feel
of how fast the car is because we're so far back and you'll see him go across screen so quickly. So you have this dark
shape here that really just pushes you towards McQueen. Even the blades of grass are
all pointing towards where you're supposed to look, as
well as the flow of the fencing. We as the audience are the outsider here because he's not quite
understanding emotionally where he should be yet in the film. So the camera is also pulled away and the shapes are boxing
him in a little bit. So he feels boxed in in his mind as well. - In this panel from Cars
3, shape does a lot for us to strengthen what's
happening in Lightning's life. That's one thing that works
well in the Cars world is this idea that the characters
themselves are shapes. Traditionally, Lightning
has rounder images, rounder aspects to him. He's friendlier. He's more approachable. He's our hero. When you get to Jackson
Storm, our new character, he's a lot more angular. But there's a lot more of
a sharp dynamic quality to Jackson, and I think these
lines also help him feel faster. The dynamic shapes of where he's going. Using these primitive triangle ideas, it really gives you a
sense of moving forward. Traditionally, other
cars in the cars world are boxes or variations on boxes. They're not going anywhere. They're slow. But they also help frame the more dynamic characters that we're looking at. The curves of Lightning and
the strong angles of Storm. - As you can tell, shapes
can be used in many ways to help tell a story, and it's universal. The use of shape to convey
meaning can apply to everything. A car, a monster, a
human, or even an emotion. In this next exercise, you'll have an opportunity to think more about shape.