So in this video, we're going
to show you how to hack a click and stick tap light. We're going to show you how
to use the body of the tap light for the Spider's body. And we're going to
also show you how to use the switch to
turn Spider on and off. So the first thing we need
to do is take the screws out. And we're just using a small
precision or watchmaker screwdriver. And you can use Phillips
or a flat-head there. And we're just going to take
out the reflector in the lens. And you can see on the
inside that we have an LED and we have a switch. So what we really
want is the switch. We don't really need
the LED that's on this. So the first thing we're
going to do is take our pliers and just pop the board
that that is on out. So you don't have
to pull really hard, but you could just break
those plastic connections that are holding it on. And then we want to
take our nipper pliers and cut the wires that are
holding the switch in place. So now what we need
to do is we need to figure out where
the power is going. So we can know how
to hack this switch. So there are two traces
that we need to connect to. And we want to connect to
the trace right here and then the trace right here. So those two traces will allow
us to complete the circuit and it will allow
us to use the switch to turn the power on and off. So the first thing we're
going to do is remove the LED. So let's just desolder that. We'll heat up those contacts on
the back and pull the LED off. If you don't have
a holder like this, you can have a friend hold
the board with the pliers while you desolder
it, but you want to be kind of careful
because it's a small board. And you want to keep that
hot soldering iron away from your fingers of course. So in any case, now
what we're going to do is we're going to insert
the first wire connector. And we're going to connect
this to the positive side of our battery. So we're going to use the
red wire because that's the color that is often used
to symbolize the positive side. So we're going to use
some lead-free solder. And what we're
going to try and do is put the wire
through that whole that we created when
we pulled out the LED. And now we're going to
just solder to the trace there and make sure that
solder flows on the wire and is connected to the board. Now we're going to have to
heat that a little bit more because it looks like it's
not completely connected to the board. So see how it pulls out
just really easily there. So what we're going to do is
we'll put the wire back through and we'll hold it in place. And then we'll make
sure that we get some more solder
on that pad there. It's really important that
you get a good connection with this joint. And it's also important
that you keep the solder from bleeding between the
two different contacts. So now we're heating
up the wire and we're going to push it
through the other side. And now we've got the other
side of the connection that we need to make. We're just going to
heat that up and we'll put some more solder
on it to make sure that that connection
is a solid connection. So now we're going to
take our nipper pliers and just trim off the
excess material there. Then what we're going to do is
we'll take one of our red wires and we're going to cut it
down to about an inch long. We'll use our nipper
pliers to do that. It doesn't matter which
one of the two red wires you decide to trim down. And we'll take
our wire strippers and take off about a quarter
inch of the insulation there on our wire. And so now it's ready to
be connected to our bot. So before we move
on, I wanted to look at the back of the
switch to make sure that the red wires are
connected correctly. You want to connect
the red wires to the copper trace or the
light green area that runs along the top and the side and the
light green area in the middle. Don't connect the red wire
to the light green area in the lower right of
this picture or the switch won't work.