OK, so in this video we're going
to connect spiders' LED eyes. Now you'll notice the
LEDs have four legs. One of the legs is longer, or
one of the leads is longer. So we want to bend
the longer lead back. Now on the first one that
we're going to put up, we're going to bend the
longer lead back in such a way that we have one
of the legs-- it's going to connect to pin 12. And so we want to sort
of bend those legs out so that we can connect to pin 12. And then we're also going to
connect next to the exposed pins, which are going to
be pin seven and eight So we want to bend
those legs out, and you can use the
nipper pliers to trim them down just a little bit. So it'll go pin
12, pin 7, pin 8, and the long leg
is bent backwards. OK, so we're going to do
the same thing for this LED. And we're going to bend
that long leg backwards. There we go. And then we're going
to connect our legs. So the legs are going
to go-- in this one, they're going to go
into, looks like-- I think we're going to do
pin four, three, and two. So those are digital pins
four, three, and two. And it takes a little bit
of doing to get in there, but we got it. OK. So those are going
to be our eyes. So, I think that's right. Yeah. Line it up there. OK. All right. So once we've got the
LED in place for those, we can take our resistors, and
we can connect those resistors to our LEDs. Now the legs that we bent
back are the negatives. They're the ones that
connect to the negative part of the circuit. And so we're going
to trim those down, and we're going to trim
down our resistor leads just a little bit so it doesn't
take up quite so much space. And then we're going to
solder them together. And so when you
take resistor, you want to-- I tried to twist
the two around each other, and they're just too short
to do that in an easy way. So what I ended up doing
was-- and I was thinking maybe I could take a piece of wire and
twist it, and it didn't work. So what I end up doing was
grabbing a alligator clip and use the alligator
clip to hold them together while-- there it goes
again, it's falling. All right. Now here we go, finally got
the alligator clip in place. And sit still-- there we go. Oh, it's falling again. So this can be kind of trying,
but once you get the alligator clip, it should work for you. OK, so the alligator
clip does two things. It holds the resistor
in place, but it also allows us to absorb some heat
so that we don't damage our LED. So now I'm just trimming off
some of the excess there. And I will do the same
for the other side of the resistor and the LED. So we'll do the same
on the other eye. And now we're just trimming
some heat shrink tubing and we're going to
slide the heat shrink tubing up over our resistor. And that way we can
protect the exposed wires from potentially shorting
on another piece of metal. It's always good to make
sure that those exposed wires are covered. Now, you can always take
just some electrical tape and cover over it too. OK, so we've got our
heat shrink tubing. We'll slide that up
over the connection. And again, electrical
tape works just as well. It's not quite as neat
as the heat shrink, but it works just as well. OK, so now what
we're going to do is, we are connecting the--
sliding the other piece of heat shrink tubing up. And then we're going to twist
the two pieces together. And we'll twist those
together with the wire that is coming from the negative
side of our motor controller, or the negative output
of the motor controller. So it's kind of tricky to
get these to go together. And you can see that I actually
broke the lead on the LED because I moved it
around too much. So the way to fix that is
to just take the resistor and-- there's already some
solder on the resistor and I can hold it
against the LED there and get it
to hold in place. And so, that'll work. So hopefully that
won't happen to you. OK, so anyway, we got
the leads on the LED and we're going to twist
everything together. There we go. All right, so now once those
pieces are twisted together, we can solder them and make
sure that joint stays solid. OK, so, we're just going
to take the solder, heat it up, and make sure that
it flows over the wires there. And then again, we'll
trim off the rough edges and-- I realized
after doing this that the heat shrink tubing
then I put on the black wires is actually too small to slide
over the solder that I put on. So I can't really use it to
do what I wanted it to do. I wanted it to slide
up over the solder. So if you do this, use
a larger diameter heat shrink tubing if you're
going to use that, so it can slide over
that solder joint. But this actually
serves as a good proof point for-- we're just
using the heat gun here to shrink up the tubing. So to cover up those open leads. And then we're going to take
a piece of electrical tape. And like I was saying, this
kind of works as a good proof point for how the
electrical tape can also cover over some exposed wire. And we'll just trim off the
excess there and make sure that it's connected
pretty tightly. OK, so now our
LEDs are connected. And the wires are insulated, and
they're in the right sockets, and everything's
in the right place. Now you, again, probably want
to spend some time bending the wires to get
everything just right. So now we're just sliding
our bottle cap eyes on. Now you want to kind
of careful doing this, because you have
to push the LEDs apart to get the bottle caps
to go on just right. But once you got
them on, you want to double check that
the leads are still connected in the right pins and
that nothing got pulled out. And there we go. OK, so we can see
that the board is on. We're about to program it.