(jazzy piano music) - [Steven] We're on the fifth floor of the Museum of Modern Art looking at probably their
most famous painting, Vincent van Gogh's "Starry Night." - [Beth] This is something that van Gogh had been interested in before he painted this particular painting. He did another version of a night sky, which is very different. In the foreground, we see
the giant undulating form of a cypress tree. - [Steven] And we don't see the
bottom of that cypress tree. It's cut off at the
bottom edge of the frame, and so we get the sense
that it must be close to us. The sky takes up almost
three quarters of the canvas and it reminds me of the
great Dutch landscapes of the 17th century, of
artists like Ruisdael, who was interested in
the movements of clouds through the sky and the
play of light there. But of course this is night, the only light is from the
moon and from the stars. - [Beth] And we're looking
down past that cypress into a valley where we see some
small cottages and a church very prominently centrally
placed with a steeple that just breaks the horizon
line formed by those mountains. And the village seems very humble but also embraced by
the mountains behind it and that cypress in front. There's a band of
lighter yellows and blues just above the hills, further protecting that landscape below. It feels protected to me at the same time that there's all this turmoil in the sky that we see in these
circular brushstrokes. - [Steven] The brushwork
has tremendous energy. One stroke follows
another, linking to create these streams of energy through the sky. And although the paint is
somewhat thick in certain areas, we can also see the
canvas in certain areas. And so it is not that heavily
painted, but nevertheless there was a kind of energy and velocity, a kind of dynamism as those
clouds roll through the sky. - [Beth] And I think that dynamism, that energy that's in the brush work in the clouds or forms
that swirl through the sky, the way that the moon
emits a pulsing light, and even the stars and planets
emit that brighter light than they do in reality, that for me, contrasts
with the tranquility of the village below that's
nestled in that valley. There is a sense of a presence
of activity in the sky, which we associate with
the heavens and the divine as though those things were alive and somehow protecting
the village underneath, at least that's one way that I
read this painting sometimes. - [Steven] And some art historians have looked then at the cypress, a tree that symbolizes death, in part because it's
often found in cemeteries. - [Beth] This a kind of linking of the earthly and the
heavenly with that cypress, that undulates almost like fire. - [Steven] And is mimicked by the steeple of the church in the valley. So that there's this pairing
where tree and the steeple are both reaching up to the heaven. - [Beth] Van Gogh like other
artists of the 1870s and '80s is thinking about complimentary colors. He's thinking about blues
and yellows and oranges, and how colors can intensify one another, and work together to
communicate ideas and feelings. And this is definitely not a
landscape that van Gogh saw. This is something constructed from memory and from his imagination. But think about how
brave this painting is, to do something with
brushwork this visible, this sketchy, this energized. - [Steven] I would say this divorced from what he would have seen. There's an abstraction of form here that the artist is comfortable with which is absolutely radical. - [Beth] And if you think
about so much of his work, it is images of what he could see and that he went out
specifically to paint. But here this incredible
bravery to do something based on his emotions, his
memories, his experiences and his imagination. - [Steven] In 1889, van Gogh
was in an asylum in Saint-Remy in Southern France, what
had once been a monastery, and van Gogh actually
had a view out his window that was relatively close to this, but there is no church there. There is no village there. - [Beth] Van Gogh is in this asylum because he suffered a
series of breakdowns. He suffered from mental
illness for much of his life, although it got worse after a fight with his fellow painter
Gauguin, when he cut his ear. - [Steven] Van Gogh was encouraged to paint at the asylum, and was given a studio space
where he had no view at all, and where this was likely painted. So this was not painted en plein air. This was not painted out of doors. What a journey this painting has taken from that room in Saint-Remy to the fifth floor of
the Museum of Modern Art, reproduced around the world recognized by people everywhere. It's a fate that I don't think the artist could have ever imagined. (jazzy piano music)