- In the past 40 wonderful weeks together we've explored all of the
fundamentals of biology. From the tiny little
machines that make us work to the systems that power
the most awe-inspiring and most complex organisms on Earth. Now, I wanna take our
learning to the next level. Simply, by broadening our perspective. With a solid understanding of biology at the small scale under our belts, it's time for the long view. For the next 12 weeks, we'll be learning how the
living things that we've studied interact and influence each other and their environments. It's the science of ecology. The idea of an organism
interacting with its environment may sound simple but it's actually pretty marvelously complicated. Nothing escapes the long arm of ecology. Life influences the chemical
makeup of the atmosphere, the geology of the planet, the climate. Nothing impacts life on Earth
today more than humanity does. And so we're gonna be
exploring that relationship, between mankind and our environment in a lot of detail in the coming weeks. Life, is powerful. And in order to understand
how living systems work, you first have to understand how they originated, and
developed, and diversified over the past 4.5 billion
years of Earth's history. The principles that you hear about today will form the framework of
our next 12 weeks together. Get ready, for the epic drama that is the history of life on Earth. (upbeat music) Earth is like a cheap rental
house in a college town. There's always somebody living there, but tenants are always moving in and out. And new tenants moving
into old ones' rooms and sometimes the
electricity gets turned off because nobody paid the power bill. It's pretty much just chaos. And like a rental house, the Earth isn't invincible. I mean a good semester of
back-to-back frat parties can tear a house up pretty fast. And then you know everybody gets evicted. And some new tenants move in. Which gives you a little
bit of perspective on humanity's position as the current dominant
species on the planet. There have been others before us and there will probably
be others when we're gone. That's just how the planet rolls. But it's taken eons for the Earth to get the
way that it is today. Earth formed about 4.6 billion years ago and for a while it was a
chunk of rock circling the sun suffering collisions with
other chunks of rock, generating unreal amounts of heat. Eventually the constant smashing
slowed down a little bit and the outer layer of the Earth cooled but the core of the planet remained hot. Like really hot, as hot
as the surface of the Sun. It gives you some ideas to
how much energy and radiation contributed to the Earth's formation. When you consider that
4.5 billion years later, there's still molten stuff
in the middle of our planet. And it's that inner heat that makes the Earth's surface so dynamic. The planet's insides have
been continually bubbling up, destroying what's there. Renovating, and rearranging furniture. It's this constant renewal that's part of what
makes life here possible. And in the scheme of things, it didn't actually take life very long to show up on that hot rock. About 4.4 billion years ago the planet was still getting pelted with giant chunks of rock and ice leftover from the formation
of the solar system. There was no oxygen in the atmosphere and volcanoes were firing
off all over the place. But, it was finally cool enough for some of the water in the atmosphere to turn from vapor into liquid. The first seas formed and in them, and in the atmosphere, a soup of chemicals. Nitrogen, nitrogen oxides,
carbon dioxide, methane, ammonia, hydrogen, hydrogen sulfide. All those things that with
the help of heat and lightning and who knows what else eventually created
small organic molecules. In some way, somehow, life happened. We don't know how it happened, I wish we did but we don't. The first life on Earth probably wasn't even
life as we think of it. It was just a collection of chemicals surrounded by a membrane. Because phospholipids as you may remember, spontaneously form bilayer
membranes in water. Over time, some of the
chemicals inside these membranes developed into amino acids and eventually, RNA, the nuclei acid that was probably the first genetic material. These collections of chemicals
trapped within membranes called protobionts most likely began to grow and split
and replicate themselves until some crazy copying error
gave way to DNA nucleotides. Which is a way more stable repository for genetic information because it's double stranded,
not single stranded like RNA. And once these little guys had DNA, they were on their way. They might only have been one cell and they were probably living in the equivalent of a hydrothermal vent, but they were making the most of it. So the first living
thing were prokaryotes, single celled organisms with no nuclei that were probably pretty similar to the archaea that we find living today in hydrothermal vents, sulfur
hot springs, and oil wells. And I apologize for
pronouncing archaea wrong for the entire biology series, my bad. These prokaryotes probably
made their grand entrance between 3.9 and 3.5 billion years ago. During what is known as the Archaean Eon. This is the first of what
scientists would identify as three eons in Earth's history. The Archean, the Proterozoic
and the Phanerozoic. The Phanerozoic being what
we've been experiencing for the last half billion years or so. An eon, as you might expect,
takes freaking forever. The first one went on
for 2.5 billion years. So we break up the eons into
eras, periods and epochs which are organized by the big-deal-events that we can see in the fossil record. So from 3.5 billion years ago until about 2.1 billion years ago, these prokaryotes were all alone on Earth. But then, something weird happened. The amount of oxygen in the
atmosphere suddenly shot up, basically from none to 10% in a very short period of
time, geologically speaking. This oxygen was most likely produced by a brand new prokaryote, called cyanobacteria which had figured out how to make its own food
through photosynthesis. The more cyanobacteria were out there, the higher the atmospheric
concentration of oxygen became. This Oxygen Revolution, as it's called probably spelled D-double-O-M for a lot of prokaryotes out there that had evolved without oxygen. And this was also one of
the first real game-changers for life on Earth. Because it was the first major
instance of living things bringing massive change
to their own environment. In fact, it may be the earliest
example of ecology at work. Cyanobacteria changed the atmosphere, judo-chopped the competition and made way for the
evolution of living things to take a new, specific direction. Then, about 2.1 billion years ago a new kind of organism made its big debut. Eukaryotes. These, as you know, are a big deal because they include
all plants and animals. Eukaryotes probably evolved via a process called endosymbiosis. Where one prokaryote
parasitisized another prokaryote or may just ate it but
forgot to digest it. And the result was actually really awesome for both the host and the
parasite/undigested prey. It formed a single-celled
organism with organelles. Specifically, mitochondria and plastids which probably evolved from those eaten or parasitic prokaryotes. This allowed for much more complextiy. And by 1.5 billion years ago we start seeing multicellular
eukaryotic organisms in the fossil record. The very first of them
probably being algae. But it wasn't until around
535 million years ago that the eukaryotes went berserk. And that's known as
the Cambrian Explosion. A super, major, biological golden age when the diversity of all
animal life on earth exploded. Nobody's entirely sure what started it but suddenly life created innovations that the planet had never seen. Creatures used minerals in sea water to build skeletons and shells. Some acquired weapons like claws, while others developed defensive plates. The evolutionary arms race between predators and prey was underway. This heralded the dawn
of the Phanerozoic Eon, the one that we're in right now. That's right, the Earth spent
the better part of two eons under the rule of a bunch
of archaea and bacteria and some like, soft-bodied worms until the Cambrian exploded and we see a lot of animal phyla that we actually are
hanging out with today. After the Cambrian the party
got so hot in the oceans that by the Ordovician Period,
around 500 million years ago, plants, animals and fungi
started colonizing land. Probably as a strategy
for escaping predation. Now there were whole new ecosystems to explore, and adapt to, and create. During the Devonian Period,
about 365 million years ago, tetrapods, four-legged vertebrates that probably evolved
from lobed-finned fishes showed up on land. And so did arthropods
like insects and spiders. From here we begin to
see ecological systems that we recognize today. Because organisms were
changing their environments by consuming oxygen in the atmosphere, and releasing carbon dioxide. And you know who likes carbon dioxide, the plants. The Carboniferous Period that extended from 359
to 299 million years ago was when the plants entirely went nuts. The forests were so
dense and so widespread that they made all our fossil fuels, all the coal and oil that we now use to power all the things with were made over the course
of about 60 million years. This time it was the
plants that had changed both the climate and the geology of Earth. These forests cranked out so much oxygen that the atmosphere
contained around 35% oxygen, rather than today's like, 21%. All this oxygen started
cooling the planet, because there wasn't enough carbon dioxide to maintain the balmy temperatures that the vast Carboniferous
jungles needed to survive. So, the whole system crashed and all the carbon from these
forests sunk into swamps and eventually got locked in rocks. Of course, now we're
releasing all of that carbon by burning fossil fuels, which is certainly helping to
keep the planet toasty now. That right there, some good ecology. In the Permian Period, 299
to 251 million years ago, all the land masses of the world joined to form one giant continent that we call Pangaea. Altering global climate and ocean currents and animals and plants
evolved in response. We started seeing gymnosperms, the first plants with seeds like modern pines, and spruces, and firs. And archosaurs, the granddaddies of dinosaurs
and modern birds showed up. But you probably picked up
enough of the pattern here to predict that this
party didn't last forever. About 252 million years
ago, something happened. Or maybe a lot of things
happened in quick succession. But whatever they were,
movie executives take note. The Permian-Triassic extinction event would make the most awesome
disaster film of all time. Because up to 96% of all marine species and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate
species bought the farm. And it's the only known
mass extinction of insects. About 57% of all taxonomic families and 83% of all genera became extinct. It was the most significant
extinction event on the planet ever. It's been hard to pinpoint the reason for this extinction event, because most of the evidence
have been wiped out, of course. It may have been kicked off by an asteroid that released the energy
equivalent of the detonation of a few million nuclear
weapons all at once. And then insult added to injury when a whole bunch of volcanoes erupted, methane was released from the seafloor. There were probably some gas explosions in what's now Siberia. And then a whole lot of climate changes, sea level change, and
changes in ocean salinity probably occurred. Nobody's sure exactly what happened. But we do know that it took a long time for life on Earth to make a comeback. But look at the bright side, as a result of the Permian-Triassic event, we got dinosaurs. They were able to evolve
during the Triassic because there wasn't much
competition for resources. so they evolved to fill
an available niche. That is a combination of
living and non-living resources that they could use to survive. Remember that word,
because a lot of ecology comes down to who's exploting, or leaving, or getting kicked out of,
or altering their niches. And during the Triassic Period, there were tons of niches. The sky was the limit, because hey, there weren't
very many animals or plants to compete with. So by the Jurassic Period about 199 million years ago
to 145 million years ago, huge, herbivorous dinosaurs
were roaming the Earth. Smaller, mean-as-crap, carnivorous dinos were stalking the herbivores. The oceans were full of
giant squid and ichthyosaurs, and long-neck plesiosaurs. The air was full of pterosaurs
and the first birds. And there were mammals! Small ones, but they
were all over the place. It just wasn't our time to shine. The Jurassic was dino time
and the dinos lived it up. They partied down until about 65 million years ago when they all went extinct,
as I'm sure you're aware. Except for their surviving
descendants, the birds. It was probably an asteroid that hit the Yucatan Peninsula in
Mexico that did them in. But other theories suggest it
could have been climate change due to increased volcanic activity. And the possibility that they
just couldn't adapt to changes in other living things around them. For instance, about 100 million years ago, angiosperms, or flowering
plants, first appeared. And they did really well. Especially since flying
insects evolved with them. Providing a great
vehicle for reproduction. This is another great example of another ecological principle, coevolution. But dinosaurs liked to eat
the old-fashioned gymnosperms. We know that from studying
their fossilized poop. So maybe their pickiness made
them go extinct, who knows? And with the dinosaurs out of the picture, mammals and birds were free to take over. And this is where the flora
and fauna on planet Earth started looking a lot
more like they do today. Since then, there have
been climate fluctuations and extinction events. And the evolution of
many animals and plants, including humans. And on a geological scale, oddly enough, that kind of brings us up to today. Ecology is all about action and reaction. An asteroid hits and a
bunch of stuff happens because of it. Plants take over and different stuff
happens because of that. Humans start releasing
all the carbon dioxide locked in 300 million year old rocks and the planet heats up and you know, we don't know what happens. But ecology is providing
us our best guesses. Over the next three months, we're gonna explore these relationships in more and more detail. As well as like, how humans
relate to the whole thing, and how we're affecting all of this.