- [Instructor] Let's talk
about indoor air pollution. I remember when I first heard
about indoor air pollution in my AP environmental science class, I was a little confused. When I used to think of pollution, I would think of images like this or this. But pollution is often invisible, and it isn't just
restricted to the outdoors. Indoor air pollutants can lead
to serious health conditions and even death. But there are ways to identify and prevent indoor air pollution. Let's take a look at an example. This is Ava. And let's say Ava, like many
other people in the world, spends the majority of her time indoors. She works, sleeps, cooks,
and eats in her home. And lately, she's been
experiencing headaches and she's been coughing. A possible culprit is
indoor air pollution. So, where could the indoor
air pollution be coming from? Let's take a look at Ava's house. Indoor air pollution can come from many different kinds of sources, both human-made and natural. Ava's furniture, paneling, and carpets could be releasing
volatile organic compounds, which are often written down as VOCs, and they basically include substances that form gases at room
temperature, like formaldehyde. Formaldehyde is used as an adhesive in building materials and upholstery, and it can get into the air. This is the same stuff
that is used to embalm and preserve dead bodies. In other words, it's not
pleasant to breathe in. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency says that formaldehyde is one of the four most dangerous air
pollutants in the country. Formaldehyde can make
you dizzy and nauseated. And if you're exposed to
enough of it, it can kill you. Indoor air pollutants can also
come from Ava's house itself in the form of particulates,
which are teeny-tiny particles so small that they can
stay suspended in the air. And they can be really dangerous because they can travel
deep into the lungs and damage cells. One such particulate is asbestos. It's actually, in my opinion,
a really cool substance. It's an electrical insulator, and it's fireproof and it's acid-proof. And there was a time when
many houses were being built with asbestos in its building insulation, flooring, and roofing. It's actually a natural
material that's mined, and it has light fluffy fibers
that can be woven into cloth. To me, it always looked like unicorn hair. But really, it's more
like evil unicorn hair. Each fiber can break
into microscopic pieces that could scar your lungs and lead to lung cancer
and other lung diseases. Particulates in Ava's house could also be coming from the paint. Lead paint in Ava's house
could begin to chip away and could suspend small
particles in the air. These particles could
cause lead poisoning, which can cause headaches
and nerve and brain damage. The use of lead and
asbestos has been restricted by many governments around the world, but these materials can still
be found in older buildings. Another way inside air can become polluted is through combustion, which
is to say burning stuff. Combustion can cause a
wide variety of pollutants that can irritate lungs,
including carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur
dioxide, and particulates. One way that carbon monoxide
can build up inside a building is from a poorly-maintained furnace. Carbon monoxide molecules
have a secret weapon. They can trick the proteins in your blood into thinking they're oxygen. This can cause asphyxiation, which is when the body
cannot get enough oxygen, and it can be deadly. Ava should make sure that her
furnace is well maintained and serviced regularly. Combustion-related air pollution doesn't just come from furnaces, though. In less economically-developed countries, families sometimes use open
fires for heating and cooking. People often burn wood, peat,
and even coal inside homes without the necessary
ventilation to circulate and dilute the pollutants in the air. Combustion-related air pollution can also come from poorly
ventilated fireplaces and tobacco smoke. So, what could Eva do to reduce combustion-related air pollution? Well, she could open the windows and she could use fans to mix the smoke and pollution with outside air. Ava should also install a
carbon monoxide detector to make sure that the air is safe. A carbon monoxide detector
could also detect leaks from natural gas stoves or heaters. It's also possible that Ava's
house has natural pollutants, like mold, dust, or even radon. Mold is a type of microscopic fungus that's always floating around in the air, and breathing it in can cause
itchy eyes, runny noses, and it can trigger asthma attacks. And mold loves moisture. So, when the air is really humid, there will be more mold spores,
which is good for the molds, but bad for us. And what areas of the house
tend to have the most moisture? The bathrooms and the kitchen, so these areas especially
need to have windows that can be opened or air
fans that can draw moisture and the molds outta the house. Another kind of natural
indoor air pollutant is radon, which is a radioactive noble gas. It's produced by the natural decay of radioactive rocks in the ground. Let's say that Ava's
basement has some cracks in the foundation and the walls. That would mean that
when radon seeps upward through the soil, it
could enter these cracks and be stuck inside Ava's house. Breathing in too much radon
could damage lung tissue and even lead to lung cancer, depending on where the house is built. Some places, like Ava's house, are more likely to have radon than others. Ava can prevent radon exposure
by sealing up the cracks in the foundation of her house and by ventilating her basement. Some indoor air pollution
requires professional remediation. To get rid of asbestos, for example, an accredited asbestos
abatement specialist basically shows up in a
biohazard suit like this. That's how dangerous it is. For other situations, there's a simple solution to
Ava's problem: ventilation. Ava could open windows on the opposing sides of
her home just a crack. The outdoor air would flow in, dilute the indoor air pollutants, and carry them outta the house. This natural ventilation
allows the air to circulate and reduces the buildup
of indoor air pollutants. There are a lot of ways
that indoor air pollutants could sneak into Ava's house, from nature, from combustion, and
from human-made items. Being aware of these sources can help Ava make sure that the air inside her house is fresh, clean, and healthy.