(jazz music) - [Beth] We're here in the
Museum of Fine Arts in Boston looking at the Benin plaques. - [Kathryn] The kingdom of
Benin is in present day Nigeria. It was founded around the year 900 and the current reigning
king Oba Ewuare II dates his dynasty back
to around the year 1250. At its height, Benin controlled a kingdom about the size of New England
with two million inhabitants. - [Beth] Oba is the word for king. So, here we are looking at the Oba dressed in fabulous regalia and holding symbols of his power. - [Kathryn] We know that this is the Oba because he's wearing a phenomenal crown made of coral beads and it has
this tall basketry projection called an oro projection, which is a sign of leadership. He's wearing a tunic
made entirely of coral. He's wearing a beautifully
imported damask skirt, and he's got coral on
his ankles, on his arms. Most importantly, he's wearing the bead
of rule on his chest. - [Beth] This coral is a
beautiful deep orange red. - [Kathryn] We also see
the king holding leopards, which are a metaphor for his power. The leopard is the fastest, most ferocious creature in the forest, and
so, it's an emblem of the king, and then, around his waste,
we have these mudfish. The mudfish is an interesting creature, in that, it can bury into
the mud during the dry season and survive until the rainy season. So, it has this ability
to live in two worlds. Also, mudfish sometimes
have an electrical charge and can shock you. - [Beth] He is frontal,
his body is symmetrical. - [Kathryn] This is an
aesthetic choice that you see in Benin art of many media. I always ask people to mimic his posture. It's very uncomfortable
to hold your hands in line with your torso, and that tells you that this is a little bit less naturalistic in just the posture of the king. As we look at other
plaques in that collection, you'll see that artists
become more comfortable showing movement in the body. - [Beth] And this plaque, originally, would have really gleamed. - [Kathryn] Visitors to the court noticed that they were
glistening in the sun, and that the Benin courtiers
kept them polished. You see them brown in most
European and American collections because Europeans like
their bronzes to be dark, they oil them, so, when the Benin bronzes
showed up in Europe, people oiled them. Today, we're nervous to remove that oil because it's effected
the layer of the metal and we worry about losing detail. - [Beth] Casting bronze is difficult. We're talking about really
accomplished artists. - [Kathryn] And, we'll see as
we look at different plaques, how the artists gained greater confidence in this medium over time. What you see in the background is the most common motif. It's a river leaf motif,
and that makes sense if we think about the coral
that the king is wearing, there's in the leaf, that
coral comes the god of wealth, Olokun, who lives underneath the river, and so, this river leaf
pattern is related to that sun, so the king controlling wealth. - [Beth] Visitors to
the court in Benin city would have seen a fabulous palace with an audience hall that
decorated with these plaques. - [Kathryn] But in our understanding from visitors to the
court in court tradition, and they would've surrounded the pillars that supported the roof
of the audience hall, so it had an open ceiling
that let in sunlight and the plaques would have gone around all four sides of those pillars. That's the theory today. - [Beth] So, we can imagine people entering the audience hall, seeing the king at the other end and looking at these images on the pillars that speak to the power of the king. - [Kathryn] It would have
been very impressive, especially when you consider that copper was a medium of exchange in this period. So, try to imagine wrapping
the halls of the president with a hundred dollar bills,
it's that kind of wealth that you're looking at when you walk in. - [Beth] And then, when you saw the Oba at the end of that audience hall, dressed in this gleaming orange coral, this was quite a sight. - [Kathryn] Like courts around the world, the idea was to dazzle you when you walked in to visit the king. - [Beth] Maybe we should talk about why you can go to so many
museums in the United States and in Europe and see these plaques. - [Kathryn] It seems like every museum has at least one Benin plaque, and that's dated to a terrible
moment in Benin history. In 1897, due to a trade dispute, there was a war between Britain and Benin. The British forces invaded Benin city, burnt it to the ground and occupied it, and took at least a third
of the royal treasury, and sold it auction in Europe. People were amazed by
the beauty of Benin art, and so, very quickly, museums around the world
bought pieces of Benin art. - [Beth] One of my favorite plaques is of a mudfish all by himself, and it reminds us that the plaques had basically two different sizes, a narrow size and a wide size. - [Kathryn] It seems
that the narrow plaques are meant to work together
with the wide plaques to sheath a column. This plaque with the
mudfish is a great example of the earliest work that
the geld is accomplishing. It's an incredibly low relief mudfish and what we mean by that is that the fish doesn't really emerge from the surface of the plaque more than about an inch,
inch and a quarter. So, the artist has been fairly safe in the way that he's molding this figure, keeping it close to the
surface of the plaque, and that's something that
might have given him confidence that it would cast well, but you can see that artists are really interested in decoration, and so, every bit of this fish has some fine decoration on it, and especially when it
was bright and shining, it would have been so
much more impressive. - [Beth] Let's look at a wider plaque, this one in higher relief, which was likely made later. Here, we see a very
common motif in Benin art and that is three figures. - [Kathryn] Very often in Benin art, you see something called triadic symmetry, where you have a central figure, and then, figures on either
side that are symmetrical. - [Beth] And in the center of this one, we see a figure playing a drum. - [Kathryn] This is probably a warrior. He's wearing a warrior's bell on his chest and he's wearing a leopard tooth necklace, saying that he's in the Oba's militia. - [Beth] And I see bells
also dangling from his belt. - [Kathryn] And if you look closely, those bells are attached
with a leopard-skin leather, which is a symbol of his
relationship to the Oba. - [Beth] And he's larger than the figures on either side of him, and this is something that we
also see in Benin art often. - [Kathryn] Although, it's
interesting in this corpus, you start to see artists abandoning it, and that might be because
it makes the side figures much harder to see from a distance. In later plaques, we start to see three figures who are all the same size, even if one of them is
hierarchically more important. - [Beth] So, I'm seeing so
much more movement here. - [Kathryn] Yes, and if we think
of the mudfish we looked at as the earliest kind of
plaque, very simple, very flat, the farther along we go, the more fun we can see
the artists are having with the medium. Here, the arms of the drummer
are off the plaque's surface, they're touching that drum in
a way that feels believable and comfortable to mimic
with your own body, same with the attendants who
are playing a double gong. Their arms are off of the
surface of the plaque. The artist is still a little cautious, the arms are attached to their chests, and yet, we get that sense
that they really are moving out to play this instrument. - [Beth] And their heads tilt slightly. So, there's a real sense of
animation to the figures. - [Kathryn] Even the way
the bells are tipped, it seems like they've just
moved or come to rest, and for me, at least, that
helps me imagine the sounds these figures are making. - [Beth] And so, these are figures who are entertaining the king. - [Kathryn] These were
likely in a procession coming to or from the Oba's palace. - [Beth] And now, we're
looking at another plaque of three officials, but these figures are all the same size. - [Kathryn] It's unlikely that
they are the same hierarchy, it seems that the figure with the helmet is a more important member of the court, than these two figures with
the crown and the feathers. - [Beth] And we can tell that because of that coral
necklace that he's wearing. - [Kathryn] These coral
necklaces are given by the king to important courtiers. The more coral you're wearing, the greater favor you have with the king. So, we know that this figure
wearing the high coral collar, which is called an odigba,
is really quite important. - [Beth] And we see the
leopard's tooth necklaces and also the warrior bells. [Kathryn] So, they're all wearing emblems that they are members of the new militias. And if you look at their stomachs, you can see a stylized
head of the leopard. This is a kind of armor made
out of a stiffened leather. - [Beth] So, this is so much more complex, the decorative forms of
their regalia stand out more. We have more of a contrast
of light and dark. - [Kathryn] You could look
at this plaque for an hour and see different textures, so you can see those cascades of bells on the figures to the left are different from the bells worn by
the figure in the helmet, they're attached differently,
the skirts are different, and there are different
levels to each figure's skirt. So, there's many different
kinds of textile depicted. The figures are wearing
different bracelets, and the figures on the left have upper arm decorations that are separate. - [Beth] So, these are figures that would be processing towards the king. - [Kathryn] Because that central figure is holding an offering box, we know that those carry either a gift from a king to his subject or taxes from a subject to a king's court. - [Beth] The figures on either
end, in their left hand, carry a sword that really
emerges from that background. We've moved from that lower
relief to higher relief. And I can see how these
figures would be more readable across a large space. - [Kathryn] They have much larger eyes, and the way that the eyes
are set into the head, it's a deeper recess, which
gives us a better legibility to see those eyes across this space, and the eyeball itself is tipped forward, again, making it easier for light to reach that part of the plaque, and for us to see it from a distance. - [Beth] So, we see stylistic change as we look at this corpus
of more than 850 plaques. - [Kathryn] You can start to see how the artists are developing the medium, how they're changing
composition over time, how they're learning
from the act of creating this large commission. It was probably made by two kings, King Esigie and his son, Orhogbua. When Esigie took the thrown in 1517, he had great problems with his court, and so, he created this commission to imagine the court that should be, and it seems to have succeeded, to have created that sense of awesomeness of the king's power, and that really contributed to the way that he repaired
relationships with his court, and assured the dominance
of the Benin king over his subjects. In the museum, we look at these frontally, but in the palace, you would've navigated around the columns, in order to sit down, and then, these figures would've taken on even greater sense of life and vitality, thoroughly becoming almost
courtiers themselves, present in the space with you. - [Beth] What an impressive environment for an audience with the Oba. (jazz music)