NARRATOR: The Earth has always
experienced climate change. Variations in the planet's tilt
and its orbit around the sun produce climate patterns
called Milankovitch cycles. In the last few million years, the cycle has alternated between
cold periods called Ice Ages and warmer periods
called Interglacials. Scientists use a number
of techniques to study climate. Pollen grains preserved
in lake and bog sediments tell us about flora
that thrived in the past. The rings of trees,
thicker in warm wet years and thinner during cold dry
ones, record the climate. Ice core samples, containing
bubbles of ancient air, store data that goes back
about one million years. And the chemistry
of ocean sediments can provide an estimate
of water temperatures going back 65 million years to the time of the dinosaurs. At the peak of the last Ice Age,
about 21,000 years ago, an ice sheet covered most
of Europe and North America. Our current geologic epoch,
the Holocene, is an interglacial period
that began 12,000 years ago. When the ice melted, numerous
species of plants and animals prospered in the warmer climate. The stable temperatures
of the Holocene enabled humans
to develop agriculture. Eventually, humans began
to impact the environment by clearing timber
and depleting soil resources. Still, the atmosphere
largely stayed the same throughout the agrarian era. Subtle natural climate
changes had been normal but even changes
of only a few degrees in average regional temperature
can affect the biosphere, opening and closing waterways
and influencing migrations. Human impact
on the global climate increased sharply
after the Industrial Revolution. Average temperatures began to
rise in the early 20th century. This was largely caused
by carbon dioxide emissions from the burning
of fossil fuels such as coal, oil
and natural gas. Carbon dioxide
is a greenhouse gas. It absorbs invisible heat
radiation from the Earth, emitting much of it back down. Consequently,
the Earth's surface is heated by both
visible sunlight and infrared radiation
from the atmosphere in what is called
the greenhouse effect. Scientists project that average
global temperatures will increase by several
degrees this century if nothing is done,
perhaps even exceeding the five-degree temperature
fluctuations typical between an ice age
and an interglacial period. This will cause changes
in weather patterns and sea levels will rise
as the ice sheets on Greenland and Antarctica melt. Global warming threatens
forest and ocean habitats, especially coral reefs,
which live in a narrow range of temperature. To fight global warming, we'll need a global commitment
to conserve energy, develop sustainable
energy sources and preserve our forests.