BILL GATES: I'm very optimistic
about where the world will be 50 years from now. I hope I'm around to see it
but I think we can already see the shape of things
in some ways. The human population, which was
growing at a very rapid rate, is now growing at a slower rate
because, as we become successful, families have chosen to have
less children and so we can see a peak population that
makes it possible to think about living within the resource
constraints that we have. We can also see a
decline in violence. It's amazing now because we hear
about all the violent things around the world but every
century the world has had a lot less war,
a lot less violent deaths. And we've come to value
the work that's being done in other countries,
making great products and really think together
about humanity's common future. The pace of innovation
will need to surprise us in some ways of what form
this great energy source will be that... will avoid us
destroying the environment. That's an invention that's
very, very important. How much care will
we give towards making sure that the poorest several billion
are not completely left out. You know, there've been
a little bit of progress there but the inequity levels still
should concern us quite a bit. And then there are things
that are harder to predict for example how important
will robots be in 50 years. Maybe 20 years ago people, when
they first heard about robots, thought, "Wow, that's pretty
scary. What does it mean?" But then when it didn't
really happen they, you know, stopped
thinking about it. It's almost like a...
only a curiosity in the movies or toys and yet
clearly in the decades ahead, the cost, the
capabilities will mimic what we've seen
in science fiction. And so we'll have to see how do
we take advantage of that? Because as we're
living longer, how do we find fulfillment? What does a working career
look like in terms of timing--
the world will have aged on average and that brings with
it very interesting problems. And so there's...
it's not without challenges but the path of extended
lifespan, more science, more global understanding,
sense of our common humanity, more education, more ability
to watch a great course, and not give up the curiosity
that you're born with but try to think about the
world and where it can go and how you can
contribute to it. I think all of these things
are taking more advantage of our innate capabilities
and will allow us to make 50 years from now
a far better place than even what we have today.