- [Instructor] Let's say we
have two samples of helium gas. One sample of helium
gas is at temperature T1 and the other sample of helium
gas is at temperature T2. If T2 is greater than T1, that means on average, the particles of helium
gas in the second box are moving faster than the
particles of helium gas in the first box. We can tell the particles
in the second box are moving faster because on average, the length of these arrows
indicating the velocity vector in the box and the right are longer than the length of the
arrows in the first box. The equation for kinetic energy is equal to 1/2 mv squared, where m is the mass of a particle and v is the velocity of a particle. Since the gas particles
in the box on the right are on average traveling faster
and have higher velocities, the average kinetic energy of the particles in the box on the right is higher than the average kinetic energy for the particles in the box on the left. And so the average kinetic energy is proportional to the temperature. The higher the temperature, the higher the average kinetic
energy of the particles. Instead of gases, let's
look at two metal blocks made of the same material. So one of the metal blocks
is at temperature T1 and the other metal block
is at temperature T2. Let's say the temperature
T2 is greater than T1. What that means is the
particles in the metal box on the right are on average moving faster than the particles in the
metal box on the left. And that means that the
average kinetic energy of the particles in the
box on the right is greater than the average kinetic energy in the particles in the box on the left. Also notice, right now
are two pieces of metal are not touching each other. So there's a little bit
of space between them. Next, we bring the two objects and we put them in
contact with each other. So now there are collisions
between the particles that touch and this results in the transfer of energy from the hotter object
to the cooler object. So heat flows from the object
at the higher temperature to the object at the lower temperature. And so the hot atoms in the
metal object on the right start to move a little slower, whereas the colder atoms
in the metal on the left start to move a little bit faster. And the transfer of energy continues until both objects have
the same final temperature. And we say that thermal
equilibrium has been reached. So here we have our two objects, and the two objects are at
the same final temperature, which means we have reached
thermal equilibrium. And since we've reached
thermal equilibrium, there's no more flow of heat
between the two objects, and since both objects are at
the same final temperature, that means the average kinetic energy of the particles in both
objects is now the same.