In the last video we discovered
what seems like a problem with the Calvin Cycle. That you have this big protein
here, enzyme, that facilitates the Calvin Cycle. All of the molecules that are
involved bond to this and then it twists and turns and it jams
things together so that they react properly. And we know what this
is, the RuBisCo. RuBisCo enzyme, or ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase. And we know when the Calvin
Cycle operates properly you'll have some carbon dioxide
attached in one part of this enzyme. And then you'll have some RuBP,
or maybe you could call it the proper word, ribulose-1
5-bisphosphate. And they're going to react. And then after they react, if
everything with the Calvin Cycle is going properly, they're
going to react and form-- they're going to be
jammed together and then split into-- for one molecule of that
and one molecule of that, you're going to have
two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate. In the last video I started with
three of these and three of these so I ended up
with six of these. But for every one of these you
end up with two of these. This is the proper
Calvin Cycle. Then these turn into your
phosphoglyceraldehydes. These turn into two phosphoglyceraldehydes, or PGALs. And then for every six of these
that are produced-- and maybe I should write a three
here, a three here and then I'll have six of these-- and
for every six of these that are produced, five go back into
the cycle to produce. So five PGALs, or glyceraldehyde
3-phosphate go back into the cycle to produce
the ribulose bisphosphate. And one of them is kind of our
end product of photosynthesis that can be used to produce
other carbohydrates. So, one PGAL. And the whole problem, we saw
with the Calvin Cycle, is that RuBisCo does not only
fix carbon dioxide. That instead of carbon
dioxide we might have an oxygen molecule. We might have an oxygen molecule
that jumps in here. And it can also attach to
the RuBisCo enzyme. And in that situation, the
oxygen and the ribulose bisphosphate react. So if we had three ribulose
bisphosphates and three oxygens, instead of producing
six phosphoglycerates we're only going to produce five
phosphoglycerates and we're going to produce five
phosphoglycolates. Which is that byproduct that
gets processed later on. And then these five. You're going to have
five here. You can't have one left over. And then you're not going
to produce anything. In doing this whole cycle
you have to use up a bunch of ATPs and NADHs. So this is a problem. If there's a lot of oxygen
present, or even a little bit of oxygen present, it's
going to make this a little bit less efficient. Because every now and then an
oxygen's going to jump in where a carbon dioxide is needed
to actually produce an actual carbohydrate
in the end. So how do plants solve
this problem? Well, one solution would be to
operate the Calvin Cycle in an environment where there is
very, very little oxygen. Or you can almost
say no oxygen. And this is exactly what
some plants do. You're like, wait,
how do I do that? Do I have to go to a planet
where there's no oxygen? No! What they do is-- and to
understand this we'll have to understand a little bit of
the actual make-up of the leaf of a plant. And that doesn't hurt because
everything we've been doing now has been biochemistry. it's nice to see leaves. So if I draw-- let's say
that that is a leaf. That is a leaf. I can make it look
nice like a leaf. That's a nice looking leaf. On your leaf's surface, and
actually on both sides of it, you have these little pores,
these little holes on the leaf's surface. They are actually surrounded
by these things called guard cells. But the important thing is that
these little pores-- and they're actually much smaller
than that; you'd have to get a microscope to actually see
them-- they're called stomata. Or one individual of
these pores or holes is called a stoma. And this is where the oxygen
and the-- mainly the carbon dioxide-- but this is where the
air enters the cell and this is actually where
water vapor is also released from the cell. If we draw a cross section of
a leaf, so let me do my best to draw a cross section
like this. Let me draw it like that
and maybe that's the bottom of the leaf. This would be my stoma. This is the actual opening. This is the actual opening and
plants can actually open and close their stomata. The plural of stoma
is stomata. They can open and close
their stomata. But the important thing to
realize is what's going on inside the cell. So most plants, you have this
whole photosynthetic process, or photosynthesis process,
occurring in these mesophyll cells, which are really just
these middle layer cells. And I'll do a detailed video
in the future about the anatomy of a plant. But these are the
mesophyll cells. This is where photosynthesis
normally occurrs. And because they use carbon
dioxide, or they need air-- actually I drew it wrong. Let me draw it a little
bit better. There's actually space
between them, so that air can get to them. There's mesophyll, I'm doing
a very rough drawing. But in this situation air can
enter through a stoma and then it can fill the space between
these mesophyll cells and it can provide air to the
mesophyll cells. And when I say air, that air is
made up of carbon dioxide and oxygen and nitrogen
and all the things that are in our air. And of course, it needs the
carbon dioxide to actually perform the Calvin Cycle. Now, we just said that it's
not just getting CO2. If it was just getting CO2
you wouldn't worry about photorespiration. It's also getting oxygen. It's also getting molecular
oxygen. So what can the plant to
do to prevent this? And not all plants-- you know,
most plants just deal with photorespiration. It's just a little less
efficient than the ideal. But some plants have-- I guess
we could say-- evolved past the photorespiration problem. And these are called
C-4 plants. Or they perform C-4
photosynthesis. And we'll understand, hopefully
in a few minutes, why it's called C-4. Just as a reminder, when we go
up to the mechanism up here. The classic Calvin Cycle, the
first byproduct is this phosphoglycerate, this
is a 3-carbon chain. So it's saying that the first
time that you fix carbon dioxide, or actually the first
time you fix carbon dioxide or oxygen, but let's say the first
time you fix carbon dioxide you end up with a
3-carbon chain molecule. That's why this is called
C-3 photosynthesis. So, that's a clue. On C-4 plants, the very first
time that they fix carbon dioxide they must end up with
a 4-carbon molecule. And what they do-- and this is
the interesting thing-- is you have all your mesophyll cells
that are out here. They're getting air. They're getting carbon
dioxide. You know, they're getting carbon
dioxide and they're getting oxygen and
whatever else. So you have all your mesophyll
cells that are getting air. But you also have cells that
are deeper within, more embedded within the leaf that
aren't being exposed directly to the air coming through
the stomata. So you have these bundle-sheath
cells. And these are actually the cells
that surround the actual pipes in the plant that
distribute the fluid up and down the plant. And we'll do a whole video on
the anatomy of the plant. I really just want you to
understand what's going on in C-4 photosynthesis. So you have these other cells
that are more embedded. They don't have direct
access to the air. So these are bundle-sheath
cells. And what these plants do is,
the carbon dioxide comes in and-- so in the standard Calvin
Cycle, everything happens in the mesophyll cells
and you have to deal with photorespiration. In your C-4 plant, or your
plants performing C-4 photosynthesis, what happens
is the carbon dioxide comes in-- so this is in the
mesophyll cell. Let me be neat about it. So in our mesophyll cell, that's
that right there, you have CO2 coming in
and it reacts. Instead of reacting with RuBP
or ribulose bisphosphate, it reacts with another very hairy
sounding compound, we'll just call it PEP. But it's phosphoenolpyruvate
So that's PEP. You just have to remember,
it is a 3-carbon chain. Now let me write down the word,
because sometimes you might want to know, what
does PEP stand for? It's phosphoenolpyruvate or phosphoenolpyruvic acid Either way. 3-carbon molecule, it's got
other stuff hanging off of this but we just have to
remember the carbons. So when these two react what are
you going to end up with? Well you could guess. You have one carbon, you
have three carbons. You're going to end up with
a 4-carbon molecule. And this reaction right here
is facilitated, not by RuBisCo, ribulose bisphosphate
carboxylase oxygenase. It's facilitated by a
different enzyme. And this is the key. This is the key for C-4. This is a different enzyme. This is called PEP
carboxylase. Let me write it down. PEP carboxylase. And that's a fitting name. Remember, RuBisCo or ribulose
bisphosphate carboxylase, it reacted ribulose bisphosphate
with carbon or oxygen. That's where that oxygenase
comes from. But now we have something
that reacts PEP, our phosphoenolpyruvate with
carbon dioxide. So it's called PEP
carboxylase. Actually this is carboxylase,
not carboxylate. It's an enzyme. This is PEP carboxylase. And what's special about PEP
carboxylase, and why it's useful in preventing
photorespiration, is that it can only fix carbon. Not oxygen. So you can imagine, this
is occurring in the mesophyll cell. You have oxygen and carbon
dioxide running around here. But only carbon dioxide can
react with the PEP via the PEP carboxylase. So then they react, they
actually produce oxaloacetic acid or oxaloacetate And you
might remember this from the Kreb Cycle. This was the thing that was the
first reactive species in our Kreb Cycle. So all of these molecules, they
keep showing up in our chemical pathways. And that's interesting if you
find that type of thing interesting. But the important thing is,
they form oxaloacetate and then oxaloacetate
gets converted. Let me make it, I made
this not as neatly as I would like to. But then that gets converted to
either malate or aspartate but these are all 4-carbon
molecules. They're a little different;
they're going to have different oxygens and hydrogens
hanging off of them. But this is either malate
or aspartate Most books will just say, oh it
will eventually just form into malate only. And then this, this malate, will
then essentially react to produce carbon dioxide. And you're like, wait. That doesn't make sense. I have carbon dioxide, it gets
fixed on oxaloacetic acid and then it gets turned into malate
or aspartate And then later I'm going to turn into
carbon dioxide again. What's the whole point? And this is the key. This is the whole crux
of the issue. So now this malate is going to
be converted back into PEP and carbon dioxide. You're like, what was
the whole point of this whole reaction? I just ended up with carbon
dioxide and PEP again. I'm just going in circles. But the neat thing about this,
and the reason why this prevents photorespiration is
that this part, this part of the reaction right here-- maybe
I should do it like this-- this part of the
reaction occurs in the mesophyll cell. It occurs up here. It occurs over here in
the mesophyll cell. So you have this malate. And then the malate actually
gets transferred into these bundle-sheath cells. So the malate gets transferred
into the bundle-sheath cells via little tubes that connect
the cells called plasmodesmata Sounds like the name
of a horror movie. So let me draw this a
little bit neater. So over here you have, with
exposure to the air, you have your mesophyll cell. Air is coming in, O2, CO2,
everything is coming in. But only CO2 can be
fixed with PEP. So you have the PEP here, the
phosphoenolpyruvate So you have your Pep here. Only CO2 can be reacted with
PEP because of the PEP carboxylase. This is the enzyme
that's operating. So this is much more specific
than the ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase, or the RuBisCo. So the oxygen just
gets ignored. Even though it's hanging around
these mesophyll cells. And then these, this
gets converted. Oxaloacetic acid. And then to malate. But once it gets converted to
malate, the malate gets transferred deeper into the
actual cell via these plasmodesmata So this might be
butting right up against bundle-sheath cell, that's
deeper in the cell. This bundle-sheath cell has
no access to oxygen. So the malate comes in. You have these little pipes
that connect the cell. Maybe I'll just draw one pipe. So let's say there's one pipe. So the malate can come here. And then, within this deeper
cell, within this bundle-sheath cell, it can
then react to form carbon dioxide and pyruvate. And then the pyruvate--
so let's just say this is the pyruvate. That pyruvate can then later
go back to actually form the PEP again. So this can go back through
your plasmodesmata and form the PEP. So the whole value here is, now
in the bundle-sheath cell, I have an environment that
only has carbon dioxide. I have no oxygen here. I was able to essentially
select for the carbon dioxide outside. Or closer to the air in
the mesophyll cell. And now that I'm deeper within
the plant, I'm in an environment that only has CO2,
because I've already selected for it. And now I can perform
the Calvin Cycle. So now, inside this deeper
cell, inside this bundle-sheath cell, I can fix
the carbon dioxide with the ribulose bisphosphate using
RuBisCo, just like we learned in the original Calvin Cycle. And we have the whole cycle
and we produce our sugars. We produce our
phosphoglyceraldehydees or our PGALs, whatever you
want to call them. And the whole value this is,
that we were able to avoid the photorespiration problem. Because now the Calvin Cycle is
occurring in an environment that only has carbon dioxide. And I think I already mentioned
it, but this is called C-4 photosynthesis. And it's an adaption to make
sure that you don't waste cycles of your Calvin Cycle
through photorespiration. And of course it was called C-4,
because the first time that carbon gets fixed
it doesn't happen in the Calvin Cycle. It happens up here, with
PEP carboxylase. And it gets fixed with PEP
into a 4-carbon chain. And that's why it's called
C-4 photosynthesis.