- Both formal charge and oxidation states are ways of counting electrons, and they're both very useful concepts. Let's start with formal charge. So one definition for formal charge is the hypothetical charge that would result if all bonding electrons
are shared equally. So let's go down to the dot
structure on the left here, which is a dot structure for methanol, and let's assign a
formal charge to carbon. We need to think about
the bonding electrons or the electrons in those
bonds around carbon, and we know that each bond
consists of two electrons. So the bond between oxygen and carbon consists of two electrons. Let me go ahead and draw
in those two electrons. Same for the bond between
carbon and hydrogen, right? Each bond consists of two electrons, so I can go around and put in
all of my bonding electrons. So if we want to assign a
formal charge to carbon, we need to think about the
number of valence electrons in the free atom or the
number of valence electrons that carbon is supposed to have. We already know that
carbon is supposed to have four valence electrons, so
I could put a four here, and from that four we're going to subtract the number of valence
electrons in the bonded atom or the number of valence electrons that carbon has around it in our drawing. And since we're doing formal charge, we need to think about all
those bonding electrons being shared equally. So we think about a covalent bond. So if we have two electrons and one bond, and those two electrons
are shared equally, we could split them up. We could give one electron to oxygen and one electron to carbon in that bond. We go over here to this
carbon hydrogen bond, and we could do the same thing. We have two electrons. We could split up those two electrons. We could give one to
carbon and one to hydrogen, and we go all the way around, and we do the same thing over here. Split up those electrons
and the same thing here. So how many valence electrons
do we see around carbon now? So let me go ahead and highlight them. There's one, two, three, and four. So that's the number of valence electrons around carbon in our drawing. So four minus four is equal to zero. So zero is the formal charge of carbon. So let me go ahead and
highlight that here. So in this molecule the formal
charge for carbon is zero. Now let's move on to
oxidation states, right? So you could also call
these oxidation numbers. So one definition for
an oxidation state is the hypothetical charge that would result if all those bonding
electrons are assigned to the more electronegative atom in the bond. So let's go to the dot structure
on the right of methanol and let's assign an oxidation
state to that carbon. We need to think about our
bonding electrons again, so let's go ahead and
put those in, all right? So we know that each bond
consists of two electrons. So I'm putting in the two
electrons in each bond, and let's think about the
oxidation state of that carbon. Well first, we need to know
the number of valence electrons in the free atom. So just like before, we know that carbon is supposed to have
four valence electrons. So this would be a four,
and from that we subtract the number of valence
electrons in the bonded atom or the number of valence electrons that carbon actually has in the drawing. This time we need to
think about an ionic bond, so we're going to pretend
like a covalent bond is an ionic bond, because
we're going to assign all of the bonding electrons to the more electronegative atom. So there's no more sharing here. Winner takes all. The more electronegative atom is going to get all of the electrons. So let's think about
the electronegativities of carbon versus oxygen, all right? We know that oxygen is more
electronegative than carbon. So oxygen takes both of
those electrons in that bond. So oxygen gets both of those electrons. Next let's think about
the electronegativities of carbon and hydrogen. We know that carbon is a little bit more
electronegative than hydrogen. So for these two electrons, carbon's going to take both of them since carbon is more
electronegative than hydrogen, and the same thing for our
other carbon hydrogen bonds. Carbon is more
electronegative than hydrogen, so carbon takes those. Carbon is more
electronegative than hydrogen, so carbon takes those. And so, how many electrons
do we have around carbon now? Let's count them up. That's one, two, three, four, five, and six. So now we have six
electrons around carbon. So four minus six gives us negative two. So here in this example carbon has an oxidation state of negative two. So there's no more sharing when you're doing oxidation states, right? Think about the more electronegative atom and assign both electrons to
the more electronegative atom. Both formal charge and
oxidation states are just really extreme methods of
electron bookkeeping, right? They're not perfect. They're certainly not perfect, right? We're assuming that the electrons are either shared equally, perfectly, or that one atom takes both electrons, and neither of those concepts
is perfect in the real world, but it works when we're
drawing our dot structures and we're thinking about
chemical reactions.